DID GOOD
EVENING EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO
THE MARCH 20 MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL, IF YOU'RE
ABLE PLEASE RISE AND JOIN US
FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERTY
FOR ALL BUT OUR CLERK PLEASE
CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
COUNCIL MEMBER THIS YEAR
BECAUSE OF OUR HERITAGE HERE,
BECAUSE OF OUR SONG HERE
COUNCILOR WATSON HERE COMES MY
MADINA HERE COMES FROM ACROSS
THE ISLAND HERE MAYOR TAYLOR,
HERE COMES MY IRE.
PERHAPS IT BECOMES MORE
APPARENT HERE COUNCILOR BRIGGS
HERE COMES FOR CORNELL HERE WE
HAVE A QUORUM MADE THE MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER ACTION
TAKEN BY COUNCIL MEMBER
MCCONNELL DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA OF LABOR OPPOSED.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
YES, MAYOR, I'D LIKE TO TAKE A
FEW MINUTES TO MAKE SOME
COMMENTS RELATIVE TO OUR
RECOVERY FROM OUR RECENT STORM
FEBRUARY 22ND, THE ICE STORM WE
HAD FIVE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
EIGHT REQUESTS FOR FOR FORESTRY
SERVICE TO DATE.
THREE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FIVE
OF THOSE OR SEVENTY ONE PERCENT
HAVE BEEN CLOSED LEAVING ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THREE THAT
ARE STILL OUTSTANDING.
THE MARCH THIRD AND FOURTH
SNOWSTORM WE RECEIVED AN
ADDITIONAL FOUR HUNDRED AND
FIFTY SIX FORESTRY SERVICE
REQUEST TO DATE TWO HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FIVE OR FORTY NINE
PERCENT OF THOSE ARE CLOSED AND
WHEN YOU COMBINE WHAT'S
OUTSTANDING BETWEEN BOTH STORMS
WE HAVE THREE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY FOUR PENDING REQUESTS
THAT WE ARE STILL TRYING TO
ADDRESS THE CITY COLLECTED TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTEEN TONS
OF MATERIAL A WEEK OF MARCH 6TH
OF THIS YEAR THAT COMPARES TO
ONLY NINETY EIGHT TONS FOR THE
SAME WEEK IN MARCH OF TWENTY
TWENTY TWO COLLECTIONS FOR THE
MONTH TO DATE ARE THREE HUNDRED
AND FORTY TWO TONS AND WE HAVE
EXPENDED FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE THAT WE
STILL HAVE A VOLUME PROBLEM AND
WE NEED TO TAKE VARIOUS
MEASURES TO ADDRESS IT.
COMPOST COLLECTION WILL BEGIN
ONE WEEK EARLIER THAN PLANNED
AND START THE WEEK OF MARCH 27
RESIDENTS WILL BE ABLE TO PLACE
CARTES BAGS AND BUNDLE
OF MATERIAL CONSISTENT WITH OUR
CURBSIDE GUIDELINES ONE WEEK
EARLIER THAN PLANNED.
THIS EFFORT PROVIDES RESIDENTS
THIS EFFORT ALLOWS RESIDENTS TO
PLACE MATERIALS FOR COLLECTION
IN THE AREAS FIELD CREWS HAVE
ALREADY BEEN THROUGH.
SO WE'VE STARTED THE WORK WE
REALIZE WE'VE GOT A MASSIVE
EFFORT IN FRONT OF US WHEN WE
START THIS SWEEP THROUGH WE
WILL GO BACK WHERE WE HAVE BEEN
PREVIOUSLY IS THE POINT I'M
TRYING TO MAKE RESIDENTS NOT
PRIVATE CONTRACTORS OR
LANDSCAPERS CAN BRING MATERIAL
TO THE CITY'S COMPOST FACILITY
THAT'S MANAGED BY WE CARE
DENALI AT FORTY ONE SEVENTY
PLATTE ROAD THE ONE CUBIC YARD
PER DAY LIMIT WILL BE WAIVED
THROUGH THE CLOSE OF BUSINESS
ON APRIL 17TH.
WE HAVE ALSO EXTENDED THE
CONTRACT WITH DAVEY TREE EXPERT
COMPANY WITH AN EMERGENCY
PURCHASE ORDER OF TWO HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR FULL
TRANSPARENCY WITH THE COUNCIL.
I HAVE SIGNED THAT TO KEEP THE
WORK GOING RATHER THAN STOPPING
IT UNTIL WE CAN GET THE
CONTRACT.
THE COUNCIL WE ARE MODIFYING
OUR APPROACH BY UTILIZING
EQUIPMENT THAT WILL REMOVE
LARGE BRUSH PILES FROM THE
CURBSIDE AREA LEAVING ONLY
TYPICAL MATERIAL BEHIND.
SO WHAT WE MEAN IS IN SIMPLE
TERMS WE'LL LOSE WE'LL USE A
CLAW TO PICK IT UP WHICH WILL
ALLOW AGAIN TO GO FASTER.
WE HAVE
ALSO CONTACTED THREE
ADDITIONAL COMPANIES AND ARE
TRYING TO DETERMINE IF THEY CAN
HELP US TO EXPEDITE THE ISSUE.
WE ESTIMATE THAT IT WILL TAKE
ANOTHER MONTH TO MAKE OUR WAY
THROUGH THE CITY.
WE ARE STRONGLY ENCOURAGING
RESIDENTS TO BUNDLE PER THE
GUIDELINES WE WILL ONLY BE ABLE
TO MAKE ONE FULL SWEEP OF THE
CITY.
RESIDENTS WILL STILL BE ABLE TO
STAGE DEBRIS FOR PICKUP THROUGH
THE CITY'S RESIDENTIAL
COMPOSTING PROGRAM BUT IT TOO
MUST MEET THE CURBSIDE
GUIDELINES.
WE BELIEVE WE WILL NEED TO
EXPAND A TOTAL OF SEVEN HUNDRED
AND FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS IN
ORDER TO COMPLETE THE SUITE AND
I'LL JUST SAY FOR THE RECORD I
SUPPORT EXPANDING THOSE FUNDS
AND WE WILL BRING REQUISITE
CONTRACTS TO COUNCIL AS SOON AS
WE CAN GET THEM READY BUT WE
NEED TO KEEP THE DAILY EFFORT
GOING.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW HAVE AN INTRODUCTION
WITH RESPECT TO SOCIAL WORK
MONTH FOLKS HERE COME ON UP
TO
SEE YOU AGAIN
.
ANN ARBOR IS OF COURSE A
COMMUNITY THAT YOU CAN SCOOCH
UP TO GET GETTING FREE.
PERFECT.
HI.
ANN ARBOR IS OF COURSE A
COMMUNITY OF CARES IN A
COMMUNITY THAT WORKS HARD WORKS
HARD TO TO FOR FOR ITS
RESIDENTS, FOR ITS COMMUNITY
MEMBERS AND NO ONE CARES MORE
AND NO AND WORKS HARDER THAN
SOCIAL WORKERS HERE IN ANN
ARBOR ACROSS MICHIGAN AND
GOODNESS ANYWHERE ELSE.
AND SO MARCH BEING SOCIAL WORK
MONTH IT IS MY DELIGHT TO ISSUE
THIS THIS PROCLAMATION WHEREAS
MARCH TWENTY TWENTY THREE IS
INDEED SOCIAL WORK MONTH
WHEREAS SOCIAL WORKERS ENTER
THE PROFESSION BECAUSE THEY
HAVE A STRONG DESIRE TO EMPOWER
INDIVIDUALS, FAMILIES,
COMMUNITIES AND OUR NATION TO
OVERCOME ISSUES THAT LIMIT
INDIVIDUALS FULL POTENTIAL AND
WHEREAS SOCIAL WORKERS HAVE
WORKED FOR MORE THAN A CENTURY
TO IMPROVE AND ENHANCE THE
WELL-BEING OF ALL PEOPLE AND
FOLLOW A CODE OF ETHICS THAT
CALLS UPON THEM TO FIGHT
INJUSTICE AND WHEREAS SOCIAL
WORK AS A PROFESSION HAS HELD
INSTITUTIONS OF PROFESSION
OF OPPRESSION AND
DISCRIMINATION MOST PROFESSIONS
HAVE.
BUT WITH THE HELP OF OUR
CODE OF ETHICS THEY STRIVE TO
DISMANTLE INEQUITY WITHIN OUR
PROFESSION AND WITHIN SOCIETY
WHEREAS SOCIAL WORKERS
POSITIVELY TOUCH THE LIVES
OF MILLIONS OF AMERICANS EACH
DAY IN SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS,
MILITARY CHILD WELFARE
AGENCIES, COMMUNITY CENTERS AND
STATE, FEDERAL, LOCAL
GOVERNMENT.
WHEREAS SOCIAL WORKERS ARE THE
LARGEST GROUP OF MENTAL HEALTH
CARE PROFESSIONALS AND
PROVIDERS IN THE UNITED STATES
AND THEY HELP DISMANTLE
INEQUITY TO WORK IN POLICY,
COMMUNITY ORGANIZING AND
RESEARCH WHERE OUR WHEREAS
SOCIAL WORKERS HAVE BETTERED
OUR NATION BY FOCUSING ON
INTERSECTIONALITY AND
ADVOCATING FOR EQUAL RIGHTS FOR
ALL MARGINAL POPULATIONS.
WHEREAS THE SOCIAL WORK
PROFESSION IS ONE OF THE
FASTEST GROWING CAREERS IN THE
UNITED STATES WITH
APPROXIMATELY 780000 SOCIAL
WORKERS TODAY AND MORE THAN
60000 EXPECTED TO ENTER THE
PROFESSION OVER THE NEXT
DECADE.
WHEREAS ANN ARBOR AND GREATER
WASHINGTON COUNTY HAVE
BENEFITED FROM THE SERVICE AND
FOCUS ON ALLEVIATING INEQUITY
THAT SOCIAL WORKERS IN
LEADERSHIP POSITIONS PROVIDE
NOW THEREFORE I CHRISTOPHER
TAYLOR, MAYOR OF ANN ARBOR IN
RECOGNITION OF THE NUMEROUS
CONTRIBUTIONS MADE BY SO-CALLED
SOCIAL WORKERS TO OUR COMMUNITY
PROCLAIMED THE MONTH OF MARCH
23 AS NATIONAL SOCIAL WORK
MONTH AND CALL UPON ALL
COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO CELEBRATE
AND SUPPORT THE SOCIAL WORK
PROFESSION.
OK, WELL DONE WITHOUT YOU AND
BY ALL MEANS THANK YOU MAYOR
TAYLOR.
MY NAME IS DWAYNE BRUSIC AND
I'M THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FOR
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SOCIAL WORKERS MICHIGAN
CHAPTER AND AN ALUM OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
SO I'M GLAD TO BE HOME.
I'M HONORED TO BE HERE WITH YOU
ALL TODAY ON BEHALF
OF MICHIGAN'S NEARLY THIRTY
THOUSAND SOCIAL WORKERS AND
SIXTY FIVE HUNDRED STUDENTS IN
SCHOOLS SOCIAL WORK ACROSS OUR
STATE, IT'S ESPECIALLY EXCITING
FOR ME TO BE HERE IN HOME OF MY
ALMA MATER AND ANN ARBOR AS
HOST TO THE NUMBER ONE SCHOOL
OF SOCIAL WORK OVER THE LAST
DECADE AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
YOU CAN JUST LOOK AROUND THE
COUNTY AND SEE THE IMPACT THAT
SOCIAL WORKERS HAD IN SO MANY
OF THE SECTORS THAT WE WORK IN
IN DEVELOPING LEADERS AND
BEHAVIORAL HEALTH, NONPROFIT
MANAGEMENT, POLITICS, RESEARCH
AND CLINICAL PRACTICE.
I'D LIKE TO RECOGNIZE THIS
AMAZING SOCIAL WORKER WHO'S
NEXT TO ME TODAY IS ANGEL WHO'S
THE DEAN OF THE SCHOOL
OF SOCIAL WORK AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
AS WE LOOK AROUND ANN ARBOR,
SOCIAL WORK IS EVERYWHERE.
YOU MAY NOT KNOW IT'S SOCIAL
WORK BUT WE ARE HERE OFTEN
BEHIND THE SCENES OR SOMETIMES
IN FRONT OF THE SCENES BUT
MAYBE NOT WITH THE LABEL FROM
OUR NATIONAL LEADING HOSPITAL
SYSTEM TO THE UNIVERSITY
SPECTRUM CENTER, THE GYM TOYE
COMMUNITY CENTER, OUR VA SYSTEM
AND THE DOZENS MENTAL HEALTH
CLINICS ACROSS THE CITY AND
EVEN HERE ON OUR CITY COUNCIL
WE HAVE TO MSW WITH COUNCIL
MEMBERS THE EDWYN AND SONG.
SO OUR AIRPORT HERE IF WE
EXPAND THAT OUT JUST A TINY BIT
FURTHER, WASHTENAW COUNTY IS
RICH IN SOCIAL WORK LEADERS
INCLUDING THE NEWEST MAYOR
OF YPSILANTI, NICOLE BROWN AND
THE HUNDREDS OF FUTURE SOCIAL
WORKERS COMING OUT OF EASTERN
MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY.
SOCIAL WORKERS ARE LEADING
BEHAVIORAL HEALTH EPPER IN THE
COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH SYSTEM
AND EXPANDING COMMUNITY
RELATIONS IN THE SHERIFF'S
OFFICE IN WASHINGTON
ACCOUNTING.
SO SOME PLACES YOU MAY NOT
EXPECT TO SEE OUR FOLKS AND I
DON'T WATCH THAT KIND
COMMISSION.
WE ALSO HAVE A SOCIAL WORKER,
JUSTIN HATCH AND AT THE STATE
LEVEL REPRESENTING ANN ARBOR WE
HAVE TWO MS WITH KARI RANKINS,
OUR NEWEST ELECTED REP AND
FELICIA BREYTENBACH IN THIS
COUNTY AND AT THE STATE SENATE
LEVEL WE HAVE SENATOR STEPHANIE
CHANG WHO GOT HER MSW RIGHT
HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
SO OUR SOCIAL WORK COMMUNITY IS
RICH AND HAS TIES TO THIS ANN
ARBOR COMMUNITY SOCIAL WORK AS
STATED IN THE PROCLAMATION
WE'RE ROOTED IN EMPOWERING
INDIVIDUALS, OUR COMMUNITIES
AND OUR ORGANIZATIONS THAT WE
WORK WITH.
WE MAKE SURE TO LOOK AT THE
INTERSECTIONS OF MICRO AND
MACRO LEVEL WORK AS THE FASTEST
GROWING FIELD IN THE UNITED
STATES.
WE KNOW THAT WE WILL JUST
CONTINUE TO EXPAND OUR IMPACT
HERE IN THE ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY
.
AND SO ON BEHALF OF OUR SOCIAL
WORK COMMUNITY HERE IN
MICHIGAN, I JUST WANT TO THANK
YOU ALL AGAIN FOR DOING THIS
PROCLAMATION AND RECOGNIZING
THE ESSENTIAL WORK THAT SOCIAL
WORKERS ARE DOING IN THE
COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU
.
WE NOW COME TO TO PUBLIC
COMMENT, PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE
TIME TO SPEAK OF PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME.
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
THE TIME ON ONLINE OUR CLERK
WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS OUR REMAINING AND WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED HERE IN
THE ROOM THE CLERK WILL DO THE
SAME.
SPEAKERS WILL OF COURSE IN EACH
CASE HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME SPEAKERS ARE NOT
ALLOWED TO DELEGATE THEIR TIME
TO OTHERS NOR ARE THEY ALLOWED
TO SHARE A TIME WITH OTHERS.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
LARRY YONKE
.
GREETINGS.
I AM DR. LARRY TUNC, A CITIZEN
OF ANN ARBOR HERE TO SPEAK IN
FAVOR OF RESOLUTION TWENTY
THREE 032 I FAVOR ASKING OUR
CITY TO EXPLORE MOVING AWAY
FROM DTT AS A SUPPLIER
OF FOSSIL GAS AND TOWARD
ALTERNATIVE SUPPLIERS THAT WILL
PARTNER WITH ANN ARBOR AS THE
CITY STEADILY MOVES TOWARDS
PHASING OUT FOSSIL FUELS AND
MOVES TOWARDS CARBON NEUTRALITY
BY 2030.
I'M A PROFESSOR AT UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN MEDICAL SCHOOL
SPEAKING ON MY OWN ACCORD BUT
ALSO AS A VOLUNTEER FOR
MICHIGAN CLINICIANS FOR CLIMATE
ACTION.
MY SCIENTIFIC TRAINING PROVIDES
A FOUNDATION FOR UNDERSTANDING
THE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE
ON OUR WORLD AND MY MEDICAL
TRAINING PROVIDES A FOUNDATION
FOR UNDERSTAND THE HEALTH
RISKS.
TO QUOTE LEADING CLIMATE
SCIENTIST CATHERINE HEIGH-HO
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A HIGHER
VERSUS LOWER EMISSIONS FUTURE
IS NOTHING LESS THAN THE
SURVIVAL OF OUR CIVILIZATION.
I AM MOST CONCERNED ABOUT THE
FOLLOWING PROBLEMS CAUSED BY
CLIMATE CHANGE INCREASING
DIRECT DOES EXTREME WEATHER
EVENTS CAUSING FLOODING IN
DETROIT AND ELSEWHERE.
THE UNUSUAL OCCURRENCE OF THREE
MAJOR HURRICANES IN THE U.S. IN
THE PAST YEAR WIDESPREAD
DROUGHTS SUCH AS THAT AFFECTING
THE WESTERN US UNPRECEDENTED
LOSS OF SPECIES AND THREATS TO
OUR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD SUPPLY
AS A PHYSICIAN AND CONCERNED
ABOUT THE ONGOING AND SEVERE
HEALTH CONSEQUENCES OF AIR
POLLUTION AT PRESENT ALSO
OF MOSQUITO BORNE ILLNESSES
SUCH AS WEST NILE VIRUS AT
PRESENT AND THE THREAT
OF MALARIA RETURNING TO THE
U.S. IN THE FUTURE.
IN RECENT YEARS WE HAVE LEARNED
THAT THE BURNING OF FOSSIL GAS
IS THE WORSE PROBLEM THAN
PREVIOUSLY OWN.
ONE REASON IS THAT ITS DRILLING
FRACKING TRANSPORTATION AND USE
IN OUR HOMES RELEASES
SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNTS OF UNBURNED
METHANE THE MAIN COMPONENT
OF GAS WHICH IS EVEN STRONGER
THAN CO2 AND CAUSING CLIMATE
CHANGE ALSO RECENT RESEARCH
SHOWS A NUMBER OF DIRECT
ADVERSE HEALTH EFFECTS FROM GAS
LEAKED IN OUR HOMES.
DTT IS FAR BEHIND OTHER ENERGY
COMPANIES IN MICHIGAN AND
ELSEWHERE IN MOVING TOWARD
SUSTAINABLE SOURCES OF ENERGY,
DTG APPEARS TO BE PAYING LITTLE
ATTENTION TO THE FUTURE OF OUR
CLIMATE OR THE HEALTH OF OUR
CITIZENS.
IF THIS RESOLUTION PASSES, I
URGE CITY OFFICIALS TO EXPLORE
THE FOLLOWING.
IS IT TRUE THAT USES LARGE
AMOUNTS OF RATEPAYER DOLLARS
FOR CAMPAIGN DONATIONS AND FOR
LOBBYING AGAINST SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY?
IS IT TRUE THAT DTT USES MY
MONEY TO SUPPORT THEIR
GREENWASHING COMMERCIALS ON TV
WHICH IGNORE THEIR FOOT
DRAGGING WITH SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY AND FINALLY, IS IT TRUE
THAT FOUR MONTHS AGO DTT
REQUESTED THAT THE MICHIGAN
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
APPROVE LARGE RATE INCREASES TO
PROTECT HIGH PAY FOR ITS
EXECUTIVES AND HIGH RETURN TO
ITS SHAREHOLDERS HIGH PAY AND
HIGH RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS
SEEM INAPPROPRIATE FOR A
COMPANY LIKE DTG THAT FIGHTS TO
PRESERVE A GENERATION OF DIRTY
ENERGY USING 20TH CENTURY
TECHNOLOGY.
THANK YOU FOR HEARING MY
COMMENTS.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS VINCENT
CARUSO.
VINCE CARUSO PHONE NUMBER EIGHT
SEVEN NINE GO AHEAD VINCENT
CARUSO PRESS STAR SIX TWO ON
MUTE YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
CIRCLE COORDINATOR NUMBER
ANTHONY , A MEMBER OF THE ARMED
FORCES GROUP BOARD AND A MEMBER
OF OUR COALITION FOR ACTION
MEDIATION AND A FORMER
EXECUTIVE ELECTED EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE MEMBERS.
I'M CALLING TONIGHT TO STATE
THAT PUTTING RESIDENTIAL
HOUSING AT 415 WASHINGTON WOULD
BE A MAJOR MISTAKE AND VERY
DANGEROUS DISCUSSIONS AT CITY
HALL REGARDING DEVELOPMENT 415
RESIDENTIAL DELIVERY ON GROUP
DOES NOT SUPPORT THIS PROPOSAL.
WE COMMUNICATED WITH CITY
COUNCIL PLANNING COMMISSION
SEVERAL TIMES FIRST
REFOUNDATION WAS AN OPEN SOURCE
FLOOD MODELING GROUP HAS BEEN
FALSELY WORKING WITH THE
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
AGENCY FEMA IN RECENT YEARS TO
UPDATE AND GREATLY LOCAL
GREATLY UPDATE THE LOCAL
CURRENT FLOODPLAIN MAP OF UP TO
THIRTY THREE PERCENT.
THEY REALLY ARE AND IF HE
AGREES FEMA IS NOW WORKING ON
FEMA 2.0 TO UPDATE THEIR MAPS
THAT THEY SAY ARE NOT ACCURATE,
OUR CURRENT CITY LEADERS
PRETEND TO PLAN FOR GLOBAL
WARMING A PROPOSED BUILDING
RESIDENTIAL AND DANGEROUS
FLOODPLAIN LOCATION FOR SOME
REASON OFFICIALS FAIL TO
INVOLVE HERE IN AND EVALUATION
OF 415 PLAN PLANNING OFFICIALS
STATED OUR MAN JERRY MADE A
COMMENT ANYWAY.
JERRY STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN
PROGRAM COORDINATOR RAISED
CONCERNS ABOUT DEVELOPMENT
PROPOSAL SAYING PUTTING A LARGE
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE IN THE
FLOOD ZONES IS INCONSISTENT
WITH THE FLOOD MITIGATION
POLICY.
SINCE 2004 THE CITY'S POLICY
HAS TO LOOK FOR OPPORTUNITIES
TO PURCHASE FLOODPLAIN
PROPERTIES AND DEMOLISH
CHEMICALS ON THIS SITE ARE SAID
TO BE PLAN TO BE CLEANED OR
TREATED BUT FLOAT IN FLOOD
WATER WHEN THE FLOOD FLOOD
OCCURS IN ADDITION TO THE
CHEMICALS COMING FROM ALL THE
FLOODED CARS ON THE SITE, THESE
CHEMICALS WILL MIGRATE INTO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND MANY HOMES IN
THE AREA SO FAR LEFT WASHINGTON
TYPE WAS FLOODED IN 1968 AND
ONE HUNDRED YEAR OLD RELIABLE
SOURCES.
IT WAS MORE LIKE A FIFTY YEAR
REIGN WHEN A MEETING OF CITY
OFFICIALS WATER THE WATERSHED
COUNCIL AND COUNTY OFFICIALS
ARE MEETING IN THE BUILDING TO
DISCUSS WHAT HAZARD 30 SECONDS
TO THE DRAIN COMMISSIONER.
WAS IT INTENDED HIS CAR WAS
FLOODED AND TOTAL THAT THEY
WERE TRAPPED IN THIS BUILDING?
THEY HAD NO IDEA THEY WERE IN A
DANGEROUS SITUATION THAT
HAPPENED WHICH TELLS YOU HOW
DANGEROUS THIS IS.
BUT EXPERTS WERE TRAPPED IN
THIS BUILDING.
THE SIX DAY FLOOD WATERS ARE
VERY CLOSE TO THE TRAIN TRESTLE
415 AT 10 FEET, SIX INCHES IN
ALL LIKELIHOOD MUCH, MUCH
LARGER FLOODPLAIN DUE TO
CLIMATE CHANGE FROM A LOW
BALLING AND FLOOD PLAIN THAT
TIME MUCH MORE DANGEROUS THAN
THE MAP SUGGESTS.
FIRST, THANK YOU AND OUR REPORT
HELP AFFORDABLE HOUSING TAX
PROPOSAL WITHOUT ALLOWING THE
FUNDS TO BE USED IN THE FLOOD
PLAIN BEFORE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KITTY CON
CALLER THE PHONE NUMBER AND IN
THREE, FOUR FIVE GO AHEAD.
HI THIS IS KITTY.
CAN I LIVE BEFORE I'M CALLING
IN ABOUT THE PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT FOR POOR CHRISTINE
WORK FOR CLINTON I OUR PLANNING
TO SPEAK ABOUT BUILDING IN A
FLOOD PLAIN BUT THE PREVIOUS
SPEAKER COVERED THAT.
SO INSTEAD I'LL SPEAK ABOUT THE
FACT THAT THE SITE IN THE OLD
WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
OF QUOTING FROM THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT GUIDELINES.
THIS IS FROM THE SECTION ON NEW
CONSTRUCTION IN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT NOT APPROPRIATE
INTRODUCING ANY NEW BUILDING
THAT IS OUT OF SCALE OR
OTHERWISE INAPPROPRIATE TO THE
SETTING TO SORT OF CHARACTER
INTRODUCING A NEW FEATURE THAT
IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE WITH
OR THAT DESTROYS THE PATTERN
OF THE SITE OR THE DISTRICT
INTRODUCING NEW CONSTRUCTION
ONTO A SITE OR IN A DISTRICT
WHICH IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE
IN TERMS OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS AND TEXTURE OR WHICH
DESTROYS RELATIONSHIPS ON THE
SITE OR THE DISTRICT QUOTE THE
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT IS IN NO
WAY APPROPRIATE TO THE
OVERSIGHT IT IS NOT COMPATIBLE
IN TERMS OF SIZE AND SCALE AND
IT WOULD DESTROY RELATIONSHIPS
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
PLEASE DO NOT APPROVE THIS PLAN
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
GOODMAN
.
ADAM GOODMAN GO AHEAD.
HI, I'M TALKING TO YOU TONIGHT
ALSO FROM THE WORD ALSO ABOUT
415 WEST WASHINGTON I
PERSONALLY QUITE EXCITED TO SEE
THIS PROJECT ADVANCE.
I THINK THE PUBLIC BENEFIT
PROVIDED BY IT ARE REALLY
IMPORTANT TO THE CITY AND SO
I'M HOPING YOU WILL NOT ONLY
APPROVE THIS REZONING REQUEST
BUT TAKE WHATEVER STEPS ARE
PRUDENT TO ENSURE THE PROJECT
ACTUALLY SUCCEEDS.
IT ACTUALLY GETS BUILT AND
ACTUALLY PROVIDES ALL THE
PROMISED BENEFITS.
SO TALKING ABOUT THE BENEFITS
AS PROPOSED WOULD INVOLVE
REMEDIATING THE ENVIRONMENTAL
CONTAMINATION.
THE SITE WOULD REACTIVATE ONE
BLIGHTED SITE AND PUT IT TO
PRODUCTIVE USES ADDING BADLY
NEEDED MARKET AND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING ON SITE AND THEN THE
PROCEEDS WOULD HELP FUND OTHER
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECTS
ELSEWHERE IN THE CITY.
THIS LAST BIT IS PARTICULARLY
IMPORTANT BECAUSE WE ARE SEEING
DEVELOPMENT COSTS CONTINUE TO
RISE FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PROJECTS AS I RECALL THERE WAS
A RECENT MEMO ABOUT THE
CATHERINE AND FORTH PROJECT
DISCUSSING IT INCREASED COSTS
ARE ALREADY BECOMING A PROBLEM
SO OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
VILLAGE IS NOT ENOUGH.
WE NEED TO TAKE EVERY
OPPORTUNITY WE CAN GET TO
SUPPLEMENT AND THIS PROJECT
WOULD DO THAT.
HOWEVER IT'S CLEAR ALSO THIS IS
GOING TO BE A DIFFICULT PROJECT
TO DEVELOP.
IT REQUIRES ENVIRONMENTAL
REMEDIATION.
THERE ARE SEVERAL ADDITIONAL
RESTRICTIONS IN THESE PROPOSED
REGULATIONS INCLUDING
PREVENTING CONSTRUCTION IN THE
FLOODWAY, REQUIRING THE CHIMNEY
BE PRESERVED, REQUIRING THAT A
SEGMENT OF A TREE LINE TRAIL BE
CONSTRUCTED.
BY THE WAY, ON THE LAST POINT
THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE
SPECIFICALLY REQUIRES
COLLABORATION WITH THE TREE
LINE CONSERVANCY, WHICH IS A
PRIVATE NONPROFIT BY NAME IN
THE ORDINANCE.
AND I'M NOT I'M NOT SURE IF
IT'S ACTUALLY APPROPRIATE TO OR
PROPERTY TO NAME IT PRIVATE
ENTITY AND ZONING ORDINANCE
LIKE THAT.
MAYBE MAYBE I COULD LOOK INTO
ANYWAY THE POINT HERE I SAW IN
COUNCIL MEMBER GREG'S
NEWSLETTER THAT SHE'S PLANNING
TO PROPOSE AN AMENDMENT THAT
WOULD ADD EVEN MORE DEVELOPMENT
RESTRICTIONS TO THIS SITE
AROUND GREEN BUILDING
REQUIREMENTS AND I CAN
CERTAINLY APPRECIATE THE INTENT
BEHIND THIS BUT I WOULD ASK HAS
ANYONE EVALUATED WHETHER SUCH
AN AMENDMENT WOULD IMPACT THE
FEASIBILITY OF THIS PROJECT?
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
ARE NOT MAKING THE PERFECT THE
ENEMY OF THE GOOD HERE.
WE DO NEED THIS PROJECT TO
SUCCEED.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LARRY DUQU
ON A VERY DARK TIME EVERYBODY'S
FAVORITE PROJECT THAT USE
MEDICAL CENTER DRIVE BRIDGE
OVER THE RAILROAD.
I SEE A 79 YEAR CONCERNED
AGENDA.
I HOPE YOU HAD A CHANCE TO LOOK
AT THE MATERIAL SIGNED
YESTERDAY THAT ILLUSTRATES A
LITTLE BIT WHAT I'D BE TALKING
ABOUT.
AS YOU KNOW, YOU DIRECTED STAFF
TO RESTART THE TWO AND A HALF
FEET THAT WERE TAKEN FROM THE
BRIDGE AND THE DESIGN TO THE
WET SIDEWALK ON THE BRIDGE TO
TEND TO HAVE FEET LIKE IT IS
NOW.
IT MAY TURN OUT THAT DOING THAT
REQUIRES ADDING AN ADDITIONAL
BEAM UNDERNEATH THE BRIDGE.
IF THAT'S THE CASE THEN IT'S
POTENTIALLY COULD BE SIX FEET
ADDED RATHER THAN TWO AND A
HALF FEET BECAUSE THE EXISTING
BEAMS ON THE BRIDGE THAT ARE
THERE BOTH NOW AND IN THE
CURRENT PLAN ARE JUST ABOUT SIX
FEET ACROSS FIVE FIVE FEET 11
INCHES A LITTLE BIT MORE.
SO IT MIGHT BE POSSIBLE AT
MINIMAL COST TO TO WIDEN THAT
SIDEWALK.
THE MAIN COST ISN'T THE DECKING
ON TOP THE MAIN CAUSES
OF SUPPORT STRUCTURE
UNDERNEATH.
SO IF WE CAN GET USING THE SAME
SUPPORT STRUCTURE, GET SOME
ADDED WIDTH ON THAT SIDEWALK
THAT WOULD BE BENEFICIAL AND
THEN INSTEAD OF HAVING A TEN
AND A HALF FOOT SIDEWALK THAT
WE COULD HAVE A 14 FOOT
SIDEWALK WITH ROOM FOR
BIDIRECTIONAL BIKE LANES AND A
PEDESTRIAN LANE AND IN TURN
THAT WOULD CONNECT TO THE
PLANNED TRAIL LOOP UNDER THE
BRIDGE WHICH WE HOPE TO HAVE
BUILT BEFORE TOO LONG AND MAKE
IT BETTER FOR EVERYBODY SAFER
AND MORE COMFORTABLE FOR BIKERS
AND WALKERS.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA RESPOND TO
ME AND I APPRECIATE THE COMMENT
THAT THE ISSUE BEFORE YOU SAYS
AT LEAST 10 AND A HALF FEET ON
THAT BRIDGE AND THAT'S IT'S
GOOD SAYS THAT BUT IT DOESN'T
SAY TO TRY TO GO MORE.
WHAT I WOULD ASK IS THAT THE
COUNCIL DIRECT STAFF TO
INVESTIGATE THE POSSIBILITY
OF MAKING THAT POSITION WIDER
THAN TWO TO MAKE IT UP TO MAYBE
SIX FEET SO THAT WE END UP WITH
VERY SAFE AND USABLE WIDER
SIDEWALK THERE SO WE CAN MAKE
THAT DIRECTION IN SOME WAY TO
CUT THE STAFF THAT'LL BE
BENEFICIAL.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN.
OH, AND THERE GOES KANAYA
WALKING OUT OF OUR CITY COUNCIL
.
NO CITY COUNCIL EVER FOUGHT
HARDER OR LONGER TO KEEP
KILLING PALESTINIANS.
ISN'T IT STRANGE THE CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER THAT TOOK ALL
THAT CAMPAIGN MONEY FROM OLD
FRIENDS OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE
FORCES JUST HAD TO RUN OUT
OF THE ROOM FOR TWENTY YEARS
YOU HAVE FORCEFULLY HALTED
EVERY RESOLUTION THAT OBJECTED
TO US MILITARY AID POURING INTO
ISRAEL TWENTY YEARS.
YOUR MAIN WEAPON IS TO KEEP THE
WORD ANTI SEMITISM ON SPEED
DIAL AND WIELD IT AS A WEAPON
TO PROTECT THE APARTHEID STATE
OF ISRAEL.
YOU ARE EXACTLY LIKE A KLANSMAN
SHEDDING CROCODILE TEARS OVER
ANTI WHITE RACISM WHILE
LYNCHING YOUR WAY ACROSS BLACK
AMERICA.
THERE IS NOTHING LOWER THAN A
CORRUPTED GOVERNMENTAL BODY
LIKE YOU CORRUPTED BY YOUR
TWENTY YEARS OF TREATING TWENTY
YEARS OF TREATING THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE LIKE INSECTS
TO BE BANISHED FROM YOUR SITE.
THAT'S HOW YOU TREAT THEM IN
OUR ATMOSPHERE OF GENOCIDAL
RACISM.
YOU SAID YOU SENT THE POLICE TO
CLEAR YOUR CHAMBERS HERE WHEN
THEY WERE PACKED WITH
PALESTINIAN PROTESTERS AND YOUR
FRIENDS YOU IGNORED THOUSANDS
WHO PETITIONED YOU, THOUSANDS
WHO MARCHED OUTSIDE THIS
BUILDING FOR AN END TO AID TO
ISRAEL.
YOU ARE EVEN UNMOVED BY
ISRAEL'S LONG INTIMATE MILITARY
ALLIANCE WITH APARTHEID SOUTH
AFRICA WITH APARTHEID SOUTH
AFRICA FOR GOD'S SAKE.
EVEN THAT DOESN'T MOVE YOU NO
US CITY COUNCIL NONE CAN MATCH
YOUR RECORD YOUR BLOODY RECORD
OF RACISM AGAINST THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
THE MAYOR CAN'T EVEN MAKE EYE
CONTACT.
TWENTY INHUMAN YEARS
OF REFUSING TO EVEN VOTE ON A
SIMPLE RESOLUTION LIKE THIS WE
ARE AGAINST MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL SIMPLE YOU FIRSTLY
PUNISHED YOUR OWN AND OUR POOR
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION WHEN IT
DARED TO PROPOSE SUCH A
RESOLUTION TO YOU.
MEANWHILE, LOADED WITH YOUR TAX
MONEY AND GUIDED BY YOUR
MOTHER'S GABBLE, ISRAEL
CONTINUE SHOOTING AND BOMBING
ITS WAY ACROSS THE MIDDLE EAST
ACROSS THE MIDDLE EAST OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS JOHN IBSA.
HELLO.
HI.
NO, I'M HERE TO TO STILL DEMAND
THAT THIS CITY COUNCIL PASSES A
RESOLUTION AND SPEAKS AGAINST
THE SLAUGHTER OF PALESTINIAN
PEOPLE.
I HAVE BEEN COMING HERE FOR
TWENTY YEARS AND I WILL
CONTINUE TO COME UNTIL I SEE
THE STATE OF ISRAEL GO OUT
OF BUSINESS AND MEMBERS WHO ARE
SITTING HERE ARE VERY WELL
AWARE OF THE GENOCIDE IT'S
HAPPENING TO PALESTINIAN
PEOPLE.
I KNOW THAT BECAUSE I SPENT A
FEW MINUTES TALKING TO HERE
MISS AMERICA MISS ERIKA ERIKA
BRIGS AND SHE TOLD ME THAT
SHE'S ALL AWARE EVERYTHING I
SAID TO HER I SAID CHILDREN ARE
BEING KILLED AND SHE SAID I
KNOW THAT I SAID EVERY TIME YOU
JUST CALLOUSLY GO TO WORK
WITHOUT PAYING ANY ATTENTION TO
THE LIVES OF PEOPLE YOU AMBAC
CHILDREN ARE DYING CHILDREN
THAT I CARE ABOUT, CHILDREN
THAT I KNOW AND I WANT TO
PROTECT AND TO ALL OF THAT SHE
RESPONDED I KNOW THEREFORE IF
SHE KNOWS I'M SURE THE REST
OF YOU KNOW AND IF YOU DIDN'T
KNOW YOU MUST BE RECEIVING ALL
MY EMAILS AND ALL MY LINKS SO
YOU KNOW THERE IS A GENOCIDE
HAPPENING IN PALESTINE WITH THE
MONEY THAT THIS COUNTRY UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA PROVIDES FOR
A RACIST NAZI STATE LIKE
ISRAEL.
YOU MUST BE AWARE OF ALL
OF THIS.
THERE IS A HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION IN THIS TOWN AND I
WAS VERY EXCITED WHEN I FIRST
ARRIVED HERE TO KNOW NOTICE
SUCH THING EXISTS.
WHAT I DIDN'T REALIZE IS IT
COULD EASILY BE CLEANED UP BY
ZIONISTS IN THIS TOWN AND BE
PROMOTED TO SOMETHING BASICALLY
LESS THAN A GENERAL POPSICLE.
AND NOW WE HAVE PEOPLE RIGHT
HERE, MISS OZON, WHO IS ON THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION YET SHE
KNOWS NOTHING ABOUT THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION AND SHE KNOWS
NOTHING ABOUT PALESTINIAN
STRUGGLE.
SHE DOES SHE COULD CARE LESS
ABOUT IT AND THIS WOMAN HAS
BEEN HAND-PICKED TO SEE BECAUSE
OF THESE TWO QUALITIES SHE HAS
NO KNOWLEDGE AND SHE COULDN'T
CARE LESS ABOUT PALESTINIAN
PEOPLE.
THE ONE TOPIC IN THE WORLD
TODAY IS THE PALESTINIAN HUMAN
RIGHTS PEOPLE WHO CARE ABOUT
HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE WORLD.
THE FIRST ISSUE IS HUMAN RIGHTS
OF THE PALESTINIAN.
YET THIS LADY HERE DOESN'T GIVE
A RAT'S ABOUT IT AND SHE DOES
NOT HIDE IT.
SO I AM HERE TO SAY THE REASON
WHY YOU GUYS HAVE MORE ENERGY
LEFT AND I CAN SEE THE MAYOR
HAS GOTTEN MUCH AND MUCH WEAKER
AND HER VOICE THAT HIS VOICE IS
UNCONVINCING EVEN WHEN HE'S
GIVING IT AWAY HE IS FALLING
ASLEEP IS BECAUSE YOUR
CONSCIOUS IS A HEAVY BURDEN AND
IT SHOULD BE BECAUSE YOU ARE
ACTING LIKE INHUMANE BEAST.
IT IS EASY TO SAY WE AGAINST
GIVING BULLETS AND BOMBS TO
MURDERERS.
IT'S EASY TO SAY THAT YET YOU
DON'T SAY IT WEIGHS HEAVILY ON
YOU REVOLUTION I MAKE GOOD ON
NATIONALITY.
THANK OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STOLLBERG
.
TOM STOLLBERG PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN FIVE FOUR THREE FOUR
.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
THIS THAT OVER AT THE CITY REAL
ESTATE PROFESSIONAL INCLUDING
THE DEVELOPER WHICH IS GETTING
IN MULTIPLE COMMUNITIES.
I WANT TO SPEAK ABOUT THE
LATEST IN A PATTERN PROBLEMATIC
ZONING ACTION NOTICED BY
EXPERTS IN PLANNING ZONING OVER
THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS.
THE APPLICATION FOR 454
WASHINGTON QUALITY DOES NOT
MAKE THE INTENT OF MULTIPLE AND
POWERFUL A POLICY DO NOT INTEND
FOR DEVELOPMENT SUCH AS THAT AT
THIS LOCATION WHICH IS IN A
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND ALMOST
ENTIRELY IN A FLOODPLAIN.
THE PROPOSAL IS FOR A PDA THAT
TO ZONING A CHARACTERISTIC TO
PERMIT THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT IF
YOU HELP WITH 70 FEET
ACHIEVABLE WITH A PREMIUM.
HOWEVER, THE DEA QUOTE PREMIUM
OPTIONS MAY BE APPLIED ONLY TO
WHAT ARE LOCATED HIGHLY OUT
OF OUR DISTRICT AND IT
CONTAINED NO PART OF A FLOOD
PLAIN.
THE DIGIT PREMIUM IS CLEARLY
NOT TO BE USED AT THIS
LOCATION.
THE PROPOSAL HOMESTEAD USES
PLAN TO ACHIEVE THE VERY SAME
THING 70 FEET INSTEAD OF 60
FEET WENT TO A SIMILAR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PREMIUM THAT
THE UDC SAYS THAT A TV SHOULD
NOT BE ALLOWED TO SELL
PRIMARILY TO AVOID THE
IMPOSITION OF STANDARDS AND
APARTMENTS OF OTHER HOMES OR
OTHER CITY REGULATIONS.
THE MORE RECENTLY AT A PREMIUM
30 PERCENT ADDITIONAL HIGH IN
EXCHANGE FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
OR SUSTAINABILITY.
THE APPLICANT IS BASING ITS
JUSTIFICATION ON THIS NEW
AGREEMENT TO REPLACE CURRENT
PROJECTS AFTER THE LOWER TOWN
LAWSUIT DEMONSTRATED A PLANNED
PROJECT SECTION OF THE U.S. WAS
NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT THERE'S NO
PREMIUM THERE'S NO MENTION
OF THE DISTRICT'S FLOOD PLAINS.
THIS INTENT IS VERY FIRST
PREMIUM ORDINANCE LANGUAGE.
THESE TWO SECTIONS ARE IN
CONFLICT.
THE UDC SPEAKS TO THAT QUOTE
WE'RE CONVINCED THAT THERE'S A
REQUIREMENT IMPOSED BY ANY
PROVISION THIS CHAPTER ARE
EITHER MORE RESTRICTIVE OR LESS
RESTRICTIVE.
THE COMPARABLE FIGURES
PUBLISHED BY THE WALL OR OR
REGULATION THE PROVISIONS OF A
MORE RESTRICTIVE OR THAT IMPOSE
HARSH THINGS OR REQUIRE
FEEDBACK.
SO WE'RE LEFT WITH THE INTENT
OF THE U.S. AND NOT EXCEED THE
STANDARD DUE TO HEIGHTMAP
OF SIXTY FEET IN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT OR A FLOOD PLAIN WILL
APPLY TO THIS LOCATION.
THIRTY SUFFICIENTLY WELL
RESEARCHED DISTRICT GUIDELINES
HAVE NOT BEEN FOLLOWED.
THEY SAY THAT THEY WILL IN FACT
BE DESIGNED TO BE COMPATIBLE
WITH SURROUNDING BUILDINGS THAT
CONTRIBUTE TO THE OVERALL
CHARACTER OF THE DISTRICT IN
TERMS OF HEIGHT OR SIZE SCALE
MASSIVE PROPORTIONS.
THIS HAS NOT BEEN DESIGNED TO
BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURES IN THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
WE REJECT THIS APPLICATION AND
SEND IT BACK TO FOLLOW OUR LAWS
AND POLICIES.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RITA ROSS.
RITA ROSS PHONE NUMBER ENDING A
NINE SIX THREE CRESTAR SIX ON
YOUR PHONE CALL OVER THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING A NINE SIX THREE
GO AHEAD.
HELLO, MY NAME IS RITA ROSS.
I REPRESENT THE ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY FOUR PROPERTY OWNERS
OF AREHART VILLAGE HOMES AS
PRESIDENT WE OPPOSE THE EARHART
ROAD TWENTY TWENTY THREE
PROJECT ALTHOUGH WE WERE
PROMISED MEETINGS WITH OUR CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THE PROJECT
ENGINEERS THEY HAVE NOT
OCCURRED.
WE WANT TO KNOW WHY YOU WOULD
ACCEPT A DESIGN THAT DIMINISHES
THE LEVEL OF SERVICE AS
REPORTED IN A MEMO DATED
FEBRUARY FIFTY TWO THOUSAND
NINETEEN FROM GRAYSCALE AND
CYNTHIA RIEDINGER KANIUK
HUTCHINSON BURIES THE DATA TO
JUSTIFY SPENDING TAXPAYER MONEY
ON PROJECTS REDUCE THE LEVEL
OF SERVICE.
ALSO THE CITY'S UNIFORM
DEVELOPMENT STIPULATES THAT
PROPOSALS CONTRIBUTING TO A
LEVEL OF SERVICE DEAR CAN BE
DENIED BY CITY COUNCIL.
WHY SHOULD THE SAME STIPULATION
NOT ONLY APPLY TO EXISTING
ROADS BUT IMPLEMENTING GUIDANCE
?
WE BELIEVE THERE IS ROOM TO
CONSIDER MORE THAN ONE DESIGN
SCENARIO AS WAS DONE FOR THE
GETTINGS ROAD IMPROVEMENT
PROJECT THE CITY COLLABORATIVE
WITH PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNERS
AND MADE ADJUSTMENTS WHICH
RESULTED IN FEWER TREES
DESTROYED A SHARED USE PATH AND
BIKE LANE SINCE AIRPORT ROAD
CURRENTLY HAS FOUR LANES AND A
PROPOSAL REDUCES THE ROAD TO
TWO LANES, THERE ARE SUFFICIENT
ROOM FOR OTHER DESIGN SCENARIOS
AS PROPOSED THE CITY WILL PAY
SEVERAL LINES OVER ACCESS ROAD
SERVICE THAT BE THE DRIVING
CLOSER TO THE MEDIAN AND USE
THE ACCESS ROAD FOR A BIKE LANE
AND A WALKING PATH OR A LARGER
SHARED PATH CONSTRUCTING A
SIDEWALK OUTSIDE OF THE
EXISTING ROAD WILL INCREASE THE
OVERALL WIDTH OF THE CORRIDOR,
KEEPING INTACT THE EXISTING
PROPERTY LINE AND MATURE TREES
CREATES THE NARROW ROAD VISUAL
UNKNOWN FACTOR IN REDUCING AUTO
SPEED.
ADDITIONALLY, THE ROUTE THREE
BUS STOP AT THE CORNER
OF PERROTTET ANGELIS IS LOCATED
JUST WEST ERHART ROAD SO MOST
USING THE STOP WOULD HAVE USED
THE EXISTING WESTERN SIDEWALK.
ALL OF THE SCHOOLS, CHURCHES,
OTHER TRIBUTARY STREETS TO KING
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS ARE TO
CONNECT TO THE WESTERN
SIDEWALK.
ALL RESIDENTS LIVING ON THE
EASTERN SIDE MUST CROSS THE
ROAD AT SOME POINT TO REACH
THOSE DESTINATIONS THEY WILL
USE THE CLOSEST CROSSWALK TO
GET ON THE WEST SIDE OF THE
STREET.
THE GOAL SHOULD BE REDUCING
OVERALL ROAD SPEED AND ON
CREATING ADEQUATE AND PROPERLY
DESIGNED CROSSWALKS RATHER THAN
CREATING A SIDEWALKS TO NOWHERE
WITH GAPS THAT WILL REMAIN IN
PERPETUITY.
I CONFRONTED BOTSFORD CEMETERY
TIME VERY STREET.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CATHY
BORRUS.
CATHY BORRIS RUNNING GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
I'M CALLING FROM WARD FIVE TO
SPEAK ABOUT THE REZONING
OF FOUR ONE FIVE WEST
WASHINGTON WHICH HAS BEEN
RECOMMENDED BY THE PLANNING
PLANNING DEPARTMENT FOR ONE
FIVE WITH WASHINGTON A
DIFFICULT FIGHT TO DEVELOP
ESPECIALLY FOR RESIDENTIAL USE
.
THAT IS BECAUSE MOST OF THE
SITE IS IN THE FLOODPLAIN.
ONE OF THE HIGHEST AUTHORITIES
ON BUILDING IN THE FLOODPLAIN
IS THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE
PROGRAM AND THEY ARE QUOTED IN
OUR OWN CITY WEBSITE AS
RECOMMENDING THAT QUOTE
RESIDENTIAL USES IN THE FLOOD
PLAIN BE DISCOURAGED END QUOTE.
THAT TO ME IS A VERY CLEAR
RECOMMENDATION DON'T BUILD IT.
DON'T BUILD RESIDENTIAL IN THE
FLOODPLAIN LOCALLY WE HAVE
JERRY HANCOCK, OUR STORM WATER
AND FLOOD PLAINS PROGRAM
COORDINATOR IN HIS MEMO TO THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT DATED
FEBRUARY 6TH OF THIS YEAR, HE
SAID QUOTE FOR THE PAST 19
YEARS THE POLICY DIRECTION THE
CITY HAS TAKEN FOR FLOODPLAIN
MITIGATION THROUGH THE VARIOUS
HAS ADMITTED MITIGATION PLANS
HAS BEEN TO LOOK FOR
OPPORTUNITIES TO PURCHASE
PROPERTY, DEMOLISH STRUCTURES
AND LOWER THE INTENSITY OF USE
IN THE FLOODPLAIN.
THE CONCEPT PLAN TO SELL FOUR
ONE FIVE WASHINGTON CITY OWNED
PERSONAL WORKS AT CROSS
PURPOSES TO THE CITY'S
FLOODPLAIN MITIGATION EFFORTS
END QUOTE.
BUT MR. HANCOCK MEMO DOES NOT
MENTION THE TOXINS IN THE FOUR
ONE FIVE WEST WASHINGTON SITE.
LUCKY FOR US, RETALLACK RUSSO,
PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF U OF M
ADDRESSES THE TOXIC IN HER
MARCH 17 LETTER TO OUR MAYOR
AND CITY COUNCIL.
HER LETTER REMINDS US OF TWO
THINGS FIRST THAT BOTH THE
BOUNCIN AND THE TCE FOUND AT
THE FOUR ONE FIVE WASHINGTON
SITE ARE KNOWN CARCINOGENS.
SECOND, HER LETTER REMINDS US
THAT QUOTE COASTAL FLOODING
RISKS THE POSSIBILITY THAT
FLOOD WATER WILL CARRY
POLLUTANTS BEYOND THE SITE
REQUIRES CAREFUL, KNOWLEDGEABLE
ANALYSIS AND QUOTE THE KIND
OF ANALYSIS THAT PERSONALLY I
WOULD TRUST ONLY EXPERTS TO DO
SO I URGE THE MAYOR AND CITY
COUNCIL TO HEED THE WORDS
OF THREE EXPERTS THE NATIONAL
FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
DURATION PATH AND OF CARUSO AND
SEND THIS PLAN BACK TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
IT NEEDS MORE EXPERTS TO TAKE A
LOOK AT IT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PATRICIA
JACKSON
.
PATRICIA JACKSON, PHONE NUMBER
FIVE ONE CRESTAR SIX TO MEAN
YOUR PHONE
PATRICIA JACKSON
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE ONE
EIGHT.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT
?
TRICIA JACKSON, IF YOU CAN
PRESS STAR SIX ON YOUR PHONE
.
IT LOOKS LIKE SHE HUNG UP
EXPECTING TECHNICAL TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTY WITH COUNSEL'S
ACQUIESCENCE.
WHAT I THINK I'D LIKE TO DO IS
GO ON TO THE NEXT SPEAKER AND
THEN IF SHE POPS ON IN TIME
WE'LL PICK HER UP.
THAT'LL GIVE HER UP TO THREE
MINUTES.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MUFFIE
MACKENSIE COLORANT THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN ZERO ONE TWO
OUR SIX ON MEET YOUR PHONE.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME MUFFIE MACKENZIE AND I
LIVE AT 1733 AS A NEARBY
RESIDENT WHO CAME TO WASHINGTON
,I HAVE MANY CONCERNS ABOUT
THE CITY PLAN TO MOVE FORWARD
TO BUILD ON THE SITE.
SEVERAL OF THEM HAVE BEEN
MENTIONED BEFORE THE CONCERNS
ABOUT THE FLOOD PLAIN.
BUT MY NUMBER ONE CONCERN ARE
THE TAX AND THE FOOD AND THE
SITE AND READY.
THESE TOXINS ARE A HAZARD TO
EVERYONE.
THESE PARKS SHOULD BE CLEANED
UP NOW URGENTLY.
THIS IS A CITY OWNED PROPERTY.
THE CITY AND THE COUNTY ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CLEANUP.
THIS RESPONSIBILITY SHOULD NOT
DEPEND ON OR WAIT ON AN UNKNOWN
DEVELOPER WHO MAY OR MAY NOT
PURCHASE THE SITE.
WHO KNOWS HOW LONG THAT PROCESS
COULD TAKE.
THIS IS VERY URGENT FOR THE
HEALTH AND WELL-BEING OF OUR
ENTIRE COMMUNITY.
WE HAVE BEEN ASKING FOR SEVERAL
MONTHS WHAT IS THE ESTIMATED
COST FOR THE CLEANUP?
IS THE COST DIFFER FOR YOU IF A
PARK OR RESIDENTIAL OR
COMMERCIAL USES?
I WAS JUST RECENTLY TOLD BY MY
CITY COUNCIL THAT THE COST IS
BETWEEN ONE AND THREE MILLION
BUT FOR WHAT USE WHERE IS THE
DATA ON HOW CAN THE CITY MAKE
AN INFORMED DECISION WITH
PUBLIC SUPPORT WITHOUT THE
ACTUAL COST REVEAL WHATEVER THE
COST THE CITY AND THE COUNTY
NEED TO FIND THE MONEY TO CLEAN
THIS SITE UP NOW WE HAVE A LOT
OF GREAT MINDS IN THE CITY WHO
COULD FIND WAYS OTHER THAN
WAITING ON A MIGHT BE DEVELOPER
.
DON'T WAIT.
WE DON'T HAVE THE CITY'S
RESPONSIBILITY TO CLEAN THE
SITE UP.
WE CLEAN THIS UP NOW THE HEALTH
AND WELL-BEING OF OUR COMMUNITY
DEPENDS ON IT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PATRICIA
GRACE.
PATRICIA
, I DON'T SEE MR.
JACKSON BACK ON THE ZOOME CALL
GIVING HER A MOMENT
RIGHT.
COMMUNICATE.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNSEL KELTON MACKENZIE
EDWIN SO THANK YOU MAYOR AND
THANK YOU CITY COUNCIL FOR
PASSING THE PROCLAMATION
DECLARING MARCH SOCIAL WORK
MONTH AND THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
TO DWAYNE BERRY JACK AND SOCIAL
WORK DEAN BETH ANGEL ALSO
COMING TODAY.
YOU KNOW WHAT I THINK IS SO
SPECIAL ABOUT OUR PROFESSION
WHICH IS WHY MY COLLEAGUE AND
FELLOW SOCIAL WORKER LYNN SONG
AND I BROUGHT THIS FORWARD
BECAUSE WE REALLY STRIVE TO
LOOK AT THINGS WITH AN EQUITY
LENS AND WE'RE ABOUT SYSTEMS
CHANGE AND THANK YOU FOR MOVING
THAT FORWARD.
YOU KNOW, A STRENGTH BASED
PERSPECTIVE IS SO IMPORTANT
WHEN YOU'RE DEALING WITH
COMMUNITY ISSUES OR COMMUNITY
PROBLEMS.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
COUNTERASSAULT.
I CAN'T REMEMBER IF I DID THIS
LAST MONTH OR TWO WEEKS AGO BUT
I WANTED TO THANK CITY STAFF
AGAIN FOR ALL THE WORK IN THE
STORM RESPONSES MULTIPLE STORM
RESPONSES THAT WE HAD STAFFING
WARMING CENTERS CALLING FOR
FOOD DONATIONS, COORDINATING
WITH SOCIAL SERVICE AGENCIES
AND I THINK IT REALLY
DEMONSTRATED WE AS A CITY CAN
WORK COLLABORATIVELY WITH THE
LIBRARY THAT SET UP AN
OVERNIGHT SHELTER IN THE COUNTY
BUT AGAIN ALSO SHED SOME LIGHT
AS TO WHO IS MOST IMPACTED
DURING THESE EMERGENCIES.
CURRENTLY WE HAVE 95 FAMILIES
IN SHELTERS, MOSTLY FAMILIES
WITH CHILDREN.
SO WE HAVE 159 CHILDREN, 102
ADULTS WHO ARE BEING
TEMPORARILY HOUSED UNTIL APRIL
1ST WHEN COUNTY FUNDING ENDS.
I REALLY APPRECIATE HOW THE
COUNTY IS QUICKLY TRYING TO
ADDRESS THIS THE SITUATION BUT
I ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO CONTACT
OUR COUNTY COLLEAGUES AND ALSO
CONTACT THE FOLKS WHO ARE
WORKING ON THE GROUND DOING
ASSESSMENTS.
SO MISSION ALPHA HOUSE AVRON
WASHHOUSE ALLIANCE ARE TRYING
TO FIGURE OUT HOW WE COULD FIND
A WAY TO CONTINUE RAPID
REHOUSING AS WE DID DURING THE
PANDEMIC AND HOPEFULLY FIND
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES.
WE CAN ALWAYS ASK FOR MORE
FEDERAL MONEY, MORE STATE
MONEY.
BUT LET ME ALSO SPEAK TO
RESIDENTS AND SOCIAL WORKERS
WHO ARE WORKING DAILY TO ASSIST
FAMILIES WHO HAVE ESCAPED
SYRIA, AFGHANISTAN AND UKRAINE.
SO THESE ARE THE NEIGHBORS WHO
HELP NEIGHBORS NOT THROUGH
RESOLUTIONS OUTSIDE OF OUR
AUTHORITY.
I'M REMINDED AS MY TIME AS
SECRETARY GENERAL OF U.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN'S MODEL
UNITED NATIONS.
SO EVEN AS A 19 YEAR OLD I
UNDERSTOOD THAT I WAS NOT A
CONGRESSIONAL REPRESENTATIVE OR
STATE DEPARTMENT POLICYMAKER
AND THAT LESSON CONTINUES NOW.
CITY COUNCIL OUR AUTHORITY IS
HERE WITH OUR BUDGET OUR IN IN
OUR CARE FOR NEIGHBORS AND
CONSTITUENTS.
SO IF FOLKS WANT TO PURSUE
RESOLUTIONS THERE ARE MODEL
UNDER THE HIGH SCHOOLS AND
AGAIN THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN MALIBRAN THANK YOU
CARL ZIMMER DISH.
THANK YOU.
AND I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT
THE COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON AND
I WILL BE HAVING A JOINT
COFFEE HOUR ON MONDAY, MARCH
27TH FROM FOUR THIRTY TO FIVE
THIRTY AND THAT WILL NOT BE
HELD AT THE TRAVER WOOD LIBRARY
AS WE HAD INITIALLY HOPED.
BUT WE ARE VERY HAPPY TO SAY
THAT IT WILL BE HELD IN THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY IN THE
MULTIPURPOSE ROOM AND WE HOPE
TO SEE ANYONE THERE WHO HAS
QUESTIONS FOR US.
THANK YOU COUNCILMAN BRIAN.
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO TAKE A MINUTE
TO MENTION SOMETHING THAT'S
ACTUALLY SCHOOLS RELATED BUT WE
TALK A LOT ABOUT EQUITY HERE
AND THERE IS A REALLY IMPORTANT
INITIATIVE RIGHT NOW A
FUNDRAISER GOING ON WITHIN THE
SCHOOL DISTRICT, THE PTO
COUNCIL WHICH IS A GROUP WITH
REPRESENTATIVES FROM EVERY PTO
THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE PUBLIC
SCHOOLS IS DOING A FUNDRAISER.
THIS IS THE FIRST OF ITS KIND.
IT'S TO RAISE MONEY FOR TITLE
ONE SCHOOLS WITHIN THE DISTRICT
FOR THEIR PTA TO HELP FUND AND
EQUALIZE THEIR PTO BUDGETS.
THIS IS A REALLY IMPORTANT
THING TO ME.
I JUST DONATED TODAY AND I
ENCOURAGE EVERYBODY TO TO
DONATE IF YOU CAN WHEN I FIRST
BECAME ENGAGED WITH THE SCHOOLS
MY DAUGHTER WAS A KINDERGARTNER
IN ELEMENTARY AND IT WAS A
TITLE ONE SCHOOL AT THE TIME.
IT HAS BEEN ON AND OFF
THROUGHOUT THE YEARS AND I WAS
SHOCKED TO LEARN THAT THAT MY
DAUGHTER SCHOOL REALLY
STRUGGLED TO FUNDRAISE TO FUND
BASIC TEACHER SUPPLIES,
CLASSROOM SUPPLIES AND THE VERY
BASIC FUND FIELD TRIPS FOR OUR
KIDS WHILE THERE WERE OTHER
SCHOOLS IN THE DISTRICT THAT
COULD AFFORD THROUGH THEIR PTO
DONATIONS TO SEND EVERY FIFTH
GRADER TO SPACE CAMP EVERY
YEAR, THERE ARE HUGE INEQUITIES
WITHIN OUR DISTRICT AND YOU
KNOW, BACK THEN I REMEMBER
RAISING IT AT A PTA MEETING AND
IT JUST WASN'T SOMETHING THAT
PEOPLE WERE INTERESTED IN AT
THE TIME.
BUT I'M REALLY HAPPY TO SEE
THAT FOLKS HAVE CONTINUED TO
WORK AT IT OVER THE YEARS AND
AND WE'RE NOW SEEING SOME
INTEREST IN SOMEHOW CREATING A
LITTLE MORE EQUITY BETWEEN OUR
BETWEEN OUR SCHOOLS.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS AN ISSUE THAT
HAS ONLY BECOME EXACERBATED BY
THE DISTRICT'S SCHOOL.
YOU KNOW, SCHOOLS OF CHOICE
WITHIN THE DISTRICT.
YOU KNOW, THE ABILITY FOR FOLKS
TO TRANSFER TO ANY SCHOOL THEY
WANT AND SOMETIMES THAT ENDS UP
ROBBING SCHOOLS OF RESOURCES.
AND SO I REALLY AGAIN I APPLAUD
THE EEOC FOR TAKING THIS ON.
I HOPE IT BECOMES AN ANNUAL
THING.
I HOPE IT WILL GROW OVER THE
YEARS AND I ENCOURAGE ANYONE
THEY'RE JUST ASKING FOR TWENTY
BUCKS SO IF YOU CAN AFFORD IT
IF YOU CAN AFFORD TO DONATE A
LITTLE MORE GREAT.
BUT IF YOU GO TO A TWO SCHOOLS
AGAPITO SEE YOU'LL SEE THE GO
FUND ME LINK THERE COUNCIL
MEMBER A DENHA THANK YOU MAYOR
I JUST VERY BRIEFLY I WANTED TO
MENTION THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
GHAZI EDWYN AND I HAVE OUR NEXT
COFFEE HOUR COMING UP TOGETHER
AT YORK ON APRIL SIX AT 11:00
A.M. SO ONCE AGAIN WE'LL BE
CROSSING OVER INTO THE FOURTH
WARD BUT ALL ARE WELCOME.
COUNCIL MEMBER MIRACLEMAN THANK
YOU MAYOR.
I WANTED TO TAKE A FEW MINUTES
TO THANK THE URBANISM CLUB AT
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
THIS IS I THINK A PRETTY NEWLY
FORMED CLUB OF UNDERGRADUATES
STUDENTS WHO ARE HIGHLY ENGAGED
IN LOCAL ISSUES LIKE SAFE
MULTI-MODAL TRANSIT, HOUSING
SUSTAINABILITY AND LIVABLE
MULTIUSE NEIGHBORHOODS.
THEY INVITED ME TO ONE OF THEIR
MEETINGS LAST WEEK.
IT WAS LOVELY.
I WAS REALLY STRUCK WITH THEIR
PASSION AND ENGAGEMENT ON LOCAL
ISSUES.
THESE ARE UNDERGRADS READING
OUR AGENDA AND FOLLOWING CITY
COUNCIL.
I THINK THAT'S PRETTY
IMPRESSIVE BUT I WAS ALSO
STRUCK BY SEVERAL OF THEM
SAYING THAT THEY FEEL THAT
RESIDENTS WOULD PREFER THAT
THEY WEREN'T HERE AND THEY
ASKED QUESTIONS LIKE SHOULDN'T
THE CITY WANT TO RETAIN US?
AND I THOUGHT YES, WE SHOULD
WANT TO RETAIN YOU AND I NOT
ONLY WELCOME THEM BUT I'M
REALLY HEARTENED BY THEIR CARE
OF OUR COMMUNITY AND LIKE I
SAID, THEIR ENGAGEMENT ON LOCAL
ISSUES AND I HOPE THAT WE ARE
BUILDING A COMMUNITY THAT THEY
CAN STAY IN IF THEY SO CHOOSE.
THANK YOU FURTHER COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON.
I WANTED TO REMIND RESIDENTS
THAT THE THE PARK'S NATURAL
AREA OF AREA PRESERVATION
OF VOLUNTEER STEWARDSHIP DAYS
ARE STARTING BACK UP THE YOU
CAN SIGN UP TO VOLUNTEER FOR
PARK CLEANUPS AT VH U.B. THAT A
T AND A P BUT YOU CAN ALSO FIND
IT THROUGH THE PARKS WEBSITE
AND SIGN UP IN CALENDAR IS IS
CONTAINED THERE THROUGH
VOLUNTEER HUB.
THE NEXT STEWARDSHIP DAY WILL
BE ACTUALLY IN WARD TWO AT
FURSTENBURG NATURE AREA OFF
OF FULLER ROAD.
IT'LL BE THIS SATURDAY AT NINE
A.M. AND FURTHER ANOTHER
OPPORTUNITY TO WILL ALSO BE AT
FOLKESTONE PARK ON APRIL FOOLS
DAY APRIL 1ST MEETING AT NINE
A.M. AS WELL.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO THANK ALL THE
NEIGHBORS WHO CAME TO MY MARCH
5TH COFFEE HOUR.
I'LL BE HOSTING ANOTHER ONE
MARCH TWENTY FIFTH SUNDAY MARCH
TWENTY FIFTH AT THREE P.M. AT
THE PLYMOUTH ROAD SWEETWATER.
SO I HOPE TO SEE RESIDENTS
THERE ARE THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENT THAT WAS PRESENTED
TO CITY COUNCIL AT THE MARCH
SIX TWENTY TWENTY THREE REGULAR
SESSION TO THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES ROSARITA
REDCLIFF I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN GARCIA
EDMUND SECOND MY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED.
I WOULD LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE BOARD
OF REVIEW AND HARLOW.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE CONSENT
AGENDA MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE
TO APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA
BY COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA COUNCILOR HECKMANN, I'D
LIKE TO PULL YOU SORRY I THINK
EIGHTEEN EIGHTEEN FOR
DISCUSSION PLEASE
FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
CATHERINE BRIGGS.
YEAH I'D LIKE TO SEE A NINETEEN
TWENTY AND THEN I JUST WANTED
TO JUST BRIEFLY SAY FIRST DAY
SEVEN HOW EXCITED I AM TO SEE
OUR
ARPA FUNDS BEING USED TO
PURCHASE THESE DUPLEXES
TO
EXPAND OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
SUPPLY AND IN THE CITY AND IN
THE FIFTH WARD TELLS MARIAH
BIRGITT FURTHER DISCUSSION THE
CONSENT AGENDA FOR MY PART I'D
LIKE TO FOLLOW UP ON NO BREAKS.
YOU'VE GOT TWO MINUTES WITH I
THINK THERE'S SOMETHING ELSE IT
IS I'M SORRY MAYBE SHOULD
CONTINUE ON AND COME BACK TO ME
BECAUSE I CAN'T FIND THE
NUMBER.
IT IS THE ONE ON ECONOMICS
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT THINKING.
OH RIGHT.
NO WORRIES.
I JUST LIKE TO FOLLOW UP VERY
BRIEFLY ON WHAT COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGGS IDENTIFIED THAT IS TO
SHINE SOME LIGHT ON THE HOUSING
COMMISSION'S PURCHASE OF EIGHT
UNITS OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
WHICH WE ARE ABLE TO DO THANKS
TO THE AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN AS
FOLKS THROUGH THE BIDEN HARRIS
AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN
JURISDICTIONS THROUGHOUT THE
UNITED STATES RECEIVED FUNDS
THAT THEY WERE ABLE TO USE FOR
A VARIETY OF APPROVED PURPOSES
HERE IN ANN ARBOR WE
ESTABLISHED A SET OF USES OVER
THE COURSE OF A WIDE PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT AND SEVERAL COUNCIL
MEETINGS, ONE OF WHICH WAS WITH
RESPECT TO THE EXPANSION
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
AND HERE AS YOU SEE IT IN
EFFECT WE ARE GOING TO UTILIZE
THREE POINT FIVE DOLLARS
MILLION OF AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN
FUNDING TO ACQUIRE THESE
PROPERTIES IN CONJUNCTION WITH
THE OTHER THROUGH THE GOOD
OFFICES OF THE HOUSING
COMMISSION, THEREBY PROVIDING
PERMANENT AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FOR EVEN MORE RESIDENTS GOING
ON AND IN PERPETUITY THESE WILL
BE PEGGED AT 60 PERCENT AM I
AND I AM INCREDIBLY EXCITED
ABOUT THE WORK THAT WE'RE DOING
THAT WE ARE ABLE TO DO HERE AS
A RESULT OF PARTNERSHIP AND
VISION AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL.
FURTHER DISCUSSION THE CONSENT
AGENDA CUSTOMER SONG MY
APOLOGIES FROM BACK THERE.
I DON'T WANT TO PULL THIS OFF.
I JUST WANT TO COMMENT AND SAY
TO SO THE GLACIER HIGHLANDS
NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION HAS
THIS MEMORIAL DAY PARADE IT
SINCE THE 1960S IT DRAWS A
COUPLE HUNDRED FOLKS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT'S IT'S A GOOD OPPORTUNITY
HERE TO MEET YOUR NEIGHBORS.
IT'S OPEN FOR FOLKS TO COME
FROM THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
WHAT WE DO IS WE READ THE NAMES
OF VETERANS WHO PASSED IN THE
PAST YEAR.
MY OWN FATHER TANNEN'S HE'S A
VETERAN.
HE'S HE WAS A MEDEVAC PILOT FOR
THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE AIR FORCE
DURING THE VIETNAM.
SO THE MAYOR ALSO PRESENTS AND
RETIRES THE FLAG.
WE HAVE A HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT
WHO PLAYS TAPS.
THERE'S A BIKE PARADE.
SO I ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO LOOK AT
THE WEBSITE FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION FOR
DETAILS ON LINE UP AND I HOPE
TO SEE ALL THEIR FURTHER
DISCUSSION WE CONSENT AGENDA IN
FAVOR OF THE CONSENT AGENDA
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF C 18, 19
AND 20 PCI POSED IS APPROVE THE
CONSENT AGENDA APPROVED WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF C 18, 19 AND
20 WITH 11 COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO K FOR SEEI SEVEN C
EIGHT AND THAT IS ALL C
EIGHTEEN RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE OF THE
RIGHT OF WAY LICENSE AGREEMENT
WITH SPIN INC FOR THE OPERATION
.
ELECTRIC SCOOTERS AND ELECTRIC
BICYCLES IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF KATINE COUNCIL MEMBER
ECKMANN.
THANK YOU.
MAINLY I WANTED TO PULL THIS TO
HIGHLIGHT SOME OF WHAT THIS
AMENDED AGREEMENT WITH SPEN
WILL BRING TO AN ARBOR'S
MOBILITY LANDSCAPE THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
DISCUSSED THIS ISSUE AT LENGTH
IN OUR MEETING LAST WEEK AND
SUPPORTED US SO SPIN INC HAS
BEEN OPERATING THESE SCOOTERS
IN ANN ARBOR SINCE 2019.
THEY STARTED WITH 200, NOW
OPERATE 400 AND SOME OF YOU
MIGHT REMEMBER A BIKE SHARE
PROGRAM THAT WE HAD SEVERAL
YEARS AGO THAT I THINK WE'RE
MAINLY AT THE DOWNTOWN BRANCH
OF THE LIBRARY.
IT DIDN'T WASN'T VERY
SUCCESSFUL SO IT WENT AWAY AND
SO THERE'S LONG BEEN TALK
OF RELAUNCHING BIKE SHARE SO
WE'VE BEEN WITHOUT BIKE SHARE
SINCE TWENTY SEVENTEEN THIS
EXTENSION OF THIS AGREEMENT
WITH THE SCOOTERS WOULD BE ONE
HUNDRED DICKLESS BIKES E BIKES
TO START WE WOULD SEE HOW WELL
IT WORKS.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THERE'S
NOT NUISANCES THAT COME ABOUT
AND JUST LEARN OUR WAY AROUND
THIS AND IT DOESN'T LEAD TO
OBSTRUCTIONS.
WE'LL MONITOR AND THEN
HOPEFULLY WE'LL BE ABLE TO
EXPAND IT.
I WANTED TO HIGHLIGHT SOME
OF THE COOL THINGS ABOUT WHAT
THEY'RE DOING.
SO ONE THING THAT THEY'RE DOING
STARTING THIS STARTED FEBRUARY
1ST WITH THE SCOOTERS AND WILL
EXTEND TO THE BIKES IS EQUITY
CONSIDERATIONS.
SO THEY HAVE AN ACCESS PROGRAM
WHICH ALLOWS FOR PEOPLE IN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR
OF MODERATE MEANS TO GET A
REDUCED FEE AND THEY'VE ALREADY
ESTABLISHED SOME RELATIONSHIPS
WITH OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
COMPLEXES.
THEY ALSO HAVE A SPECIAL CARD
THAT YOU CAN GET SO THAT YOU
CAN USE THEIR VEHICLES WITHOUT
HAVING A CREDIT CARD BANK OR
SMARTPHONE.
SO REALLY WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO
DO IS BROUGHT AN OPPORTUNITY TO
THESE DEVICES.
ONE THING THAT THE DATA NERD IN
ME IS EXCITED ABOUT IS THAT
THEY HAVE TO SHARE THEIR DATA
WITH US.
THESE ARE AGGREGATE DATA NOT
PERSONALLY IDENTIFYING BUT IT
CAN SHOW US WHERE USE IS
STRONGEST AND WHERE PATHS ARE
BEING TAKEN AND I THINK THAT'S
GOING TO HELP US A LOT WITH OUR
MOBILITY PLANNING.
SO I'M I'M REALLY EXCITED TO
SUPPORT THIS TONIGHT AS A WAY
OF FURTHER ADVANCING OUR
MOBILITY GOALS AND FURTHERING
OUR TRANSPORT PLAN.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POST IT IS APPROVED SEE A
NINETEEN RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO THE
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
BETWEEN ANN ARBOR SPARK IN THE
CITY ANN ARBOR FOR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT SERVICES TWENTY
FOUR THOUSAND FIVE DOLLAR
AMENDMENT NINETY NINE THOUSAND
FIVE HUNDRED DOLLAR CONTRACT
TOTAL MOVE BY COUNCIL EXECUTIVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF THE NINETEEN COUNCIL
MEMBER BREAKS.
YEAH THANKS.
I WAS EXCITED TO SEE THIS ON
THE AGENDA.
THIS IS FOLKS THAT AREN'T
LOOKING AT OUR AGENDA RIGHT NOW
A BENCHMARKING STUDY FOR
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IT WILL IS
WORTH ANIBA SPARK WILL DEVELOP
A BENCHMARKING STUDY TO
IDENTIFY QUALITY QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE FACTORS THAT
DRIVE THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS AT TEN LOCATIONS ACROSS
THE UNITED STATES.
AND SO I CAN'T REMEMBER WATSON
.
I HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT SOME
ELEMENTS THAT WE HAD WANTED TO
GET SOME MORE INFORMATION ON IT
THOUGHT THIS WOULD BE A GOOD
OPPORTUNITY TO INCLUDE A
QUESTION I RESPECT WE'VE
COMMUNICATED TO STAFF AND IT
SOUNDS LIKE I DON'T NEED TO
CREATE A FORMAL AMENDMENT TO
THIS BECAUSE THERE WANTS TO BE
A LITTLE FLEXIBILITY IN TERMS
OF THE QUESTIONS.
BUT I DID WANT TO KIND OF PUT
IT ON THE RECORD THAT WE HAVE
AN INTEREST IN GETTING AN
ANSWER TO THE QUESTION
SPECIFICALLY ARE THERE ANY
MUNICIPAL PROGRAMS OR SERVICES
TO SUPPORT THE GROWTH AND OR
REMEDY THE DISPLACEMENT
OF MINORITY OWNED SMALL
BUSINESSES?
SO WE JUST WANT TO GET
INFORMATION ON THAT TO TO
INFORM OUR FUTURE CITY
PRACTICES AS WELL AND EXCITED
TO SEE THIS WORK BEING DONE FOR
THE DISCUSSION OF CIA COUNCIL.
WE'RE GOING TO THANK YOU, MAYOR
TAYLOR.
I'M SO FULL AND FAIR DISCLOSURE
.
I USED TO BE EMPLOYED BY ANN
ARBOR SPARK AND WHEN I SAW THIS
ON THE AGENDA I HAD QUESTIONS
REGARDING JUST GENERAL BEST
PRACTICES IN TERMS
OF BENCHMARKING AS AN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY THAT
INCREASES OUR COMPETITIVENESS
IS TO ME FELT LIKE SOMETHING
THAT THE ORGANIZATION SHOULD BE
DOING AND DOING WELL FOR THEIR
OWN EFFORTS AND FURTHER EFFORTS
ON BEHALF OF THE CITY CONTRACT
THAT IS AWARDED TO THEM
ANNUALLY OR HAS BEEN
HISTORICALLY.
I SPOKE WITH OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR, MR. DOUGHNEY.
IT WAS REALLY HELPFUL IN THAT
REGARD AND I'M EXCITED ABOUT
THIS AND I'M EXCITED TO SUPPORT
IT TONIGHT.
I THINK THAT THE DIFFERENCE FOR
ME IS WE'RE SORT OF WHAT WHAT
LED ME TO WANT TO SUPPORT THIS
IS THE NOTION THAT WE WOULD
COLLECT DATA THAT THE CITY IS
NOT ABLE TO COLLECT ON ITS OWN
IN ORDER TO INFORM OUR FUTURE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS
RIGHT NOW OUR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS ARE
CENTERED AROUND WHAT ARE LOCAL
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY
AND THE STATE DIRECT US TO DO
IN TERMS OF COMPETITIVENESS
WHICH IS DEEMED DRIVING
INDUSTRIES.
IT'S A VERY NEUROFOCUS HIGH
TECH INDUSTRIES, BIOTECH.
IT YOU CAN YOU CAN LOOK IT UP
ON THE STATE'S WEBSITE BUT
THERE ARE FIVE FOCUSES ADVANCED
AUTOMOTIVE.
THIS WOULD IN MY MIND AND TO
COME TO NO BREAKS POINT REALLY
EXPAND THAT VIEW AND REALLY BE
INFORMATIVE AROUND WHERE ARE
THE GAPS, WHERE CAN WE BETTER
SUPPORT BUSINESS ATTRACTION
RETENTION ACCELERATION TALENT
ATTRACTION ENHANCEMENT.
I'D LIKE TO SEE WHAT THOSE GAPS
ARE AND TO REALLY UNDERSTAND
IT.
SO THAT IS GOING FORWARD THE
CITY CAN DEVELOP AN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY THAT MEETS
NOT ONLY THE NEEDS OF THOSE
DRIVING INDUSTRY BUSINESSES BUT
THE BUSINESSES ON MAIN STREET,
OTHER NEW EMERGING INDUSTRIES
THAT MIGHT AFFORD US ECONOMIC
ADVANTAGE AND ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY IN THE CITY.
SO I'M ENTHUSIASTIC TO DO THAT.
I THINK THAT SOME OF THE
THOUGHT AROUND FILLING THOSE
GAPS SHOULD BE PART OF THE
PROCESS OF DEVELOPING WHICH
CITIES TO GO TO AND BENCHMARK
AGAINST AND WHICH QUESTIONS WE
ASK.
AND I'M HOPEFUL FOR THAT DATA
TO REALLY BE A POWERFUL SOURCE
OF TRUTH FOR US AS WE COME UP
WITH AN ACADEMIC DEVELOPMENT
STRATEGY FOR THE CITYWIDE
COUNCIL MEMBER IHR WELL THANK
YOU MUCH HAS BEEN SAID ALREADY.
SO I'LL JUST ADD THANKS TO MR.
ANTHONY FOR PUTTING THIS
TOGETHER FOR BRINGING A VISION
OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TO OUR
CITY THAT WE HAVE NOT ENJOYED
BEFORE AND I KNOW IT COMES FROM
HIS VAST EXPERIENCE IN OTHER
AREAS.
I THINK IT WAS MAYBE KIND OF A
SHOCK TO COME TO ANN ARBOR AND
LEARN THAT WE JUST KIND OF LET
THINGS HAPPEN HERE IN TERMS ARE
WE HAVE FOR A LONG TIME AND
WE'VE BEEN FORTUNATE THAT MANY
PEOPLE WANT TO MAKE THINGS
HAPPEN HERE AND SO THE CITY HAS
CONTINUED TO GROW AND DEVELOP
WITHOUT HAVING A STRATEGY
DIRECTED BY ANY ONE ENTITY OR
THE CITY.
HOWEVER, WE CAN DO BETTER AND
THIS IS JUST ONE PIECE OF IT
THE OTHER THERE ARE OTHER
PIECES IN MOTION THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
OF COURSE WHICH I'VE TALKED
ABOUT BEFORE HAS BROADENED ITS
MISSION
TO TAKE A MORE ACTIVE
ROLE IN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITIES IN THE CITY AND THIS
IS GOING TO FORM A LOT OF THE
WORK THAT MAY BE DONE THERE AS
WELL AS FUTURE WORK THAT MAY BE
DONE, YOU KNOW, REALLY ON THE
CITY SIDE AS WELL.
SO AGAIN, YOU KNOW, I SUPPORT
THIS.
I THINK IT'S A MOVE IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION AND I THINK
IT'S A SIGNAL TO RESIDENTS THAT
WE ARE REALLY TAKING A GREATER
MEASURE OF CONTROL OVER OUR
DESTINY HERE AND TRYING TO BE
MORE THOUGHTFUL AND INTENTIONAL
ABOUT WHERE AND WHEN WE GROW
AND HOW AND HOW WE CAN INCREASE
,YOU KNOW, ECONOMIC ACTIVITY
EVERYWHERE FROM SMALL BUSINESS
,A LARGE IN CITY FOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNTERASSAULT.
I'M REALLY ENCOURAGED BY THIS
WORK.
I ALSO WANT TO POINT TO HOW THE
COUNTY HAD ALLOCATED A MILLION
TOWARDS SUPPORTING ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT THROUGH SMALL
BUSINESS GROWTH ACTIVATOR AND
THERE ARE APPLICATIONS THAT CAN
BE SUBMITTED FOR FIVE THOUSAND
GRANTS AND THAT'S ACTUALLY IN
COLLABORATION WITH SPARKE THE
ASSOCIATION OF BUSINESS
OF COLOR BUSINESSES OF COLOR
AND THAT'S JUST TO HELP SMALL
SMALL BUSINESSES WITH I THINK
IT'S LESS THAN LESS THAN TEN
EMPLOYEES BUT THE COUNTY HAS A
WEBSITE UP THE GRANTS THE GRANT
PROCESS HAS BEEN OPEN SINCE
JANUARY AND THE GOAL IS THAT
THE MILLION WOULD GO TOWARDS 80
TO 100 SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS
WHO ARE LEFT OUT OF THE PPP OR
STATE FEDERAL PROGRAMS DURING
COVID.
SO I'D LOVE TO SEE HOW SPARK
CAN HELP MOTIVATE THAT THIS
WORK SO THAT WE CAN SEE BIGGER
IMPACT IN MORE VULNERABLE
COMMUNITIES, FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF POST IT IS APPROVED A TWENTY
RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATION.
PART OF ME THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR NEGOTIATE A NEW
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MY RIG MY COUNCIL PRIOR
DISCUSSION PLEASE HAVE A
TWENTY.
I UNDERSTAND WE HAVE AN ACTION
FROM STAFF.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
WE HAVE DR. STULTS AVAILABLE.
HE WILL HANDLE THE STAFF
INTRODUCTION OR THIS.
I'M DR. STULZ.
GOOD EVENING MEMBERS OF THE
COUNCIL.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME HERE
TONIGHT.
THERE WERE FOUR QUESTIONS THAT
WERE POSED TO US AND I'D LIKE
TO ADDRESS THOSE IN THE ORDER
IN WHICH I RECEIVED THE FIRST
IS THE PURPOSE OR THE GOALS
OF THE NEGOTIATION.
TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION, I'D
LIKE TO FIRST START BY STATING
WHAT A FRANCHISE IS UNDER
MICHIGAN LAW A FRANCHISE IS A
CONTRACT BETWEEN A LOCAL UNIT
OF GOVERNMENT AND A UTILITY
THAT DOES TWO THINGS ONE
GOVERNS THE USE OF THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY AND SECOND SETS
THE CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH THE
COMPANY MAY FOR A SET PERIOD
PROVIDE THE SPECIFIED UTILITY
SERVICE FRANCHISES CAN ALSO
INCLUDE ADDITIONAL TERMS AND
SEVERAL LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY HAVE
SUCCESSFULLY ADVANCED
AFFORDABILITY EQUITY AND CLEAN
ENERGY GOALS VIA FRANCHISE
NEGOTIATIONS WHILE ALSO
OPTIMIZING THE USE OF PUBLIC
RIGHTS IN MICHIGAN YOU NEED TO
HAVE A FRANCHISE TO PROVIDE A
SERVICE TO THE COMMUNITY GIVEN
THE IMPORTANCE OF THE FRANCHISE
AND THE REALITY THAT THE
EXISTING FRANCHISE FOR NATURAL
GAS PROVISION EXPIRES IN TWENTY
TWENTY SEVEN, STAFF BELIEVE WE
SHOULD START NEGOTIATING A NEW
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE AND WORK TO BEGIN
IMMEDIATELY ENSURING THAT THIS
NEW FRANCHISE ALIGNS WITH OUR
TWO ZERO GOALS INCLUDING
ENSURING THAT RESIDENTS HAVE
CHOICES THAT ALLOW THEM TO HEAT
THEIR HOMES AND BUSINESSES WITH
SAFE, HEALTHY, CLEAN,
AFFORDABLE AND STABLY PRICED
FUEL BACKING QUESTION HOW THIS
ACTIVITY HAS THE POTENTIAL TO
ADVANCE OUR ZERO GOALS.
STAFF BELIEVE THAT NO RESIDENT
SHOULD BE FORCED TO PAY FOR
ENERGY THAT NEGATIVELY IMPACTS
THEIR HEALTH AND SAFETY AND
THAT IS HAZARDOUS TO OUR
COMMUNITY.
THAT'S WHY WE SEE UPCOMING
FRANCHISE DISCUSSIONS AS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PROVIDE
RESIDENTS WITH ENERGY CHOICES
THAT ARE AS I MENTIONED
PREVIOUSLY SAFE, HEALTHY,
AFFORDABLE, CLEAN AND THIS IS
WHERE THE FRANCHISE MOST
DIRECTLY INTERSECTS WITH H0 BY
EXPLORING OPTIONS THAT WILL
ALLOW US TO HEAT OUR HOMES AND
BUSINESSES WITH CLEAN,
RENEWABLE AND AFFORDABLE
ENERGY.
THIS DIRECTLY ALIGNS WITH OUR
H0 GOALS SPECIFICALLY
STRATEGIES TWO AND THREE.
THIRD QUESTION WHY THIS WASN'T
DISCUSSED EARLIER IS AN OPTION.
AS MENTIONED PREVIOUSLY, OUR
EXISTING FRANCHISE DOESN'T
EXPIRE UNTIL TWENTY TWENTY
SEVEN IS PART OF OUR WORK TO
HELP THE COMMUNITY TRANSITION
TOWARDS MORE SUSTAINABLE
SOURCES OF HEATING AND COOLING.
STAFF HAVE BEEN REVIEWING A
SLEW OF DOCUMENTS INCLUDING THE
CITY'S EXISTING FRANCHISE UPON
REVIEW WE NOTED THE EXPIRATION
DATE AS WELL AS THE FACT THAT
THE FRANCHISE IS TERMINABLE AB
WILL NOW IT'S IMPORTANT AT THIS
POINT TO NOTE THAT HISTORICALLY
FRANCHISES HAVE ALMOST ALWAYS
EXCLUSIVELY FOCUSED ON THE
TERMS GOVERNING THE USE OF THE
PUBLIC WAY WITHOUT FIRST
PURPOSE I MENTIONED PREVIOUSLY
BUT GIVEN COMMUNITY DISCUSSIONS
AROUND ACHIEVEMENT OF H0 STAFF
BEGAN REVIEWING OPPORTUNITIES
TO ADVANCE THE SECOND PURPOSE
OF A FRANCHISE WHICH IS SETTING
THE CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH A
COMPANY MAY FOR A SET PERIOD
OF TIME PROVIDE A SPECIFIED
UTILITY SERVICE.
THIS WOULD STAFF TO BEGIN
RESEARCHING HOW OTHER
COMMUNITIES HAVE ADVANCED THEIR
CLIMATE AND EQUITY GOALS WHEN
SELECTING THEIR UTILITY
PROVIDERS.
AFTER SEVERAL CONVERSATIONS
APPEAR CITIES, A DECISION WAS
MADE BY STAFF TO BRING
TONIGHT'S RESOLUTION FORWARD TO
ENSURE WE ARE NOTIFYING
DECISION MAKERS, THE PUBLIC AND
POTENTIAL PROVIDERS AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE ABOUT THE CITY'S
OPPORTUNITY TO NEGOTIATE THIS
NEW PEPING FRANCHISE AND ENSURE
IT'S CONSISTENT WITH BEST
PRACTICES CERTAINLY REGARDING
THE USE OF RIGHTS AWAY AS WELL
AS FULL ALIGNMENT WITH A TWO
ZERO AND THE CITY'S
AFFORDABILITY GOALS.
AND FINALLY FOR QUESTION HOW
COMMUNITY MEMBERS COMMISSIONS
WILL BE INCLUDED AS WE PROCEED
FORWARD IF COUNCIL APPROVES THE
RESOLUTION BEFORE YOU TONIGHT
WE WILL SHORTLY ANNOUNCE A
SERIES OF PUBLIC MEETINGS TO
SHARE MORE DETAILS ABOUT WHAT
THE FRANCHISE IS AS WELL AS
WHAT IS IT?
IT IS NOT AND GATHER IDEAS FROM
THE PUBLIC ABOUT WHAT THEY
WOULD LIKE TO SEE INCLUDED IN A
NEW HEATING FRANCHISE.
WE ALSO ANTICIPATE HAVING A
SPECIAL DISCUSSION WITH THE
CITY'S ENERGY COMMISSION ON THE
TOPIC AND OPENING NEW EMAIL
ADDRESS WHERE FOLKS CAN SEND
IDEAS AND SUGGESTIONS AT ANY
POINT THAT EMAIL WILL BE
FRANCHISE FEEDBACK AT GOGU.
ADDITIONALLY, IF THE RESOLUTION
PASSES, STAFF WILL PREPARE A
FORMAL REQUEST FOR IDEAS WHERE
RIGHTS AND POTENTIAL UTILITY
PROVIDERS OR ENERGY PROVIDERS
CAN SEND THEIR IDEAS ABOUT HOW
THE CITY COULD ACHIEVE A
CAREFUL TRANSITION TO RENEWABLE
ENERGY SOURCES FOR HEATING ALL
OF OUR AND OUR HOMES AND
BUSINESSES.
FINALLY, STAFF HAVE ALREADY
LAUNCHED A NEW CITY WEBSITE TO
GIVE THE PUBLIC APPRIZED
OF WORK ON THE HEATING
FRANCHISE AND WE WILL CONTINUE
TO KEEP THAT UP TODAY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, COUNCILOR BRIGGS.
THANK YOU, DR. STULTZ.
THAT IS PERFECT.
I WE I'VE JUST BEEN HEARING
SOME QUESTIONS FROM COMMUNITY
MEMBERS IN TERMS OF KIND
OF WHAT THIS WHAT THIS MEANT
AND I THINK YOU ANSWERED ALL
THOSE QUITE FULLY I HOPE THAT
ALLEVIATE SOME OF THE QUESTIONS
AND KIND OF CONFUSION THAT
FOLKS HAVE HAD BOTH BOTH ON OUR
COMMISSIONS AND JUST RESIDENTS
KIND OF WONDERING HOW THIS WHAT
THIS MEANS FOR THEM.
SO IT'S EXCITING AND I'M
EXCITED TO SUPPORT IT TONIGHT
AND THANKS COUNCILMAN BRIAN.
THANK YOU.
UM, THANK YOU, DR. DOLZ.
I JUST WANT TO REITERATE THAT,
YOU KNOW, WE'RE DOING THIS
BECAUSE ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS ARE
DEMANDING ENERGY THAT IS SAFE,
AFFORDABLE, RELIABLE AND
SUSTAINABLE AND THIS ALIGNS
WITH OUR TWO ZERO GOALS.
IT'S A GREAT TIME TO BE HAVING
THIS DISCUSSION, GETTING IN
EARLY BUT YOU KNOW WELL IN
ADVANCE OF TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN
AND TO BEGIN HAVING A COMMUNITY
WIDE DISCUSSION ABOUT HOW WE
CAN VERY CAREFULLY AND
RESPONSIBLY TRANSITION TO A
CLEAN ENERGY FUTURE THROUGHOUT
OUR CITY STUDIES STUDIES HAVE
SHOWN THE NEGATIVE HEALTH
EFFECTS OF HAVING A BURNING
FOSSIL FUELS IN OUR HOMES AND
YOU KNOW, NO PERSON SHOULD HAVE
TO SACRIFICE THEIR HEALTH AND
THEIR SAFETY AND THEIR
WELL-BEING IN ORDER TO HEAT
THEIR HOME OR THEIR BUSINESS.
SO WE ARE COMMITTED TO THIS
WORK OF TRANSITIONING TO CLEAN
ENERGY FUTURE WHILE ALSO
IMPROVING AND THIS IS A VERY
IMPORTANT POINT IMPROVING THE
RELIABILITY AND THE RESILIENCE
AND THE SAFETY AND
AFFORDABILITY OF THE CITY'S
ENERGY.
FINALLY WHAT WE DO HERE IN ANN
ARBOR IS REALLY EXCITING TO ME
BECAUSE WHAT WE DO HERE IN ANN
ARBOR CAN REALLY SERVE AS A
MODEL NATIONWIDE.
WE ARE TAKING A A REALLY UNIQUE
LOOK AT HOW WE APPROACH A
FRANCHISE AND WE COULD BE
SERVING AS A MODEL JUST AS OUR
TWO ZERO PLAN ALREADY SERVES AS
A MODEL FOR THE COUNTRY AND FOR
COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
SO I'M EXCITED TO SUPPORT THIS
TONIGHT.
SO I'M BRITISH.
I DON'T WANT TO REPEAT MY
COLLEAGUE'S EXCELLENT ELOQUENT
AND ENTHUSIASTIC WORDS.
I DID WANT TO NOTE THAT SOME
PEOPLE MAY BE AWARE THAT
PLANNING COMMISSION HAD BEEN
DEBATING ACHIEVING A CHANGE
LIKE THIS THROUGH AN AMENDMENT
TO THE TO THE UDC TO THE CITY'S
DEVELOPMENT LAND USE GOVERNANCE
CODE AND I AM SO PLEASED TO SEE
THIS OPTION SURFACE WHICH
BECAUSE NO THERE'S NO PRECEDENT
FOR WHAT WE WERE THINKING
OF DOING IN THE UDC, NO
PRECEDENT IN MICHIGAN AND THIS
OPTION WE'RE LOOKING AT COMES
UP AS PART OF HOW WE ROUTINELY
NEED TO DO BUSINESS WITH DTI
ANYWAY WE WOULD BE RENEGOTIATE
THIS FRANCHISE FOR 2027 AND WE
ARE STARTING EARLY TO SEE
WHETHER THEY CAN PROVIDE US THE
KIND OF CLEAN, RELIABLE, STABLY
PRICED ENERGY THAT WE DESERVE.
KATSURAGI 01
I'M ALSO REALLY
EXCITED TO SUPPORT US AND THANK
YOU DR. SALTZ.
YOU AS SOMEONE WHO'S REALLY
INTERESTED IN JUST HOLDING MORE
ACCOUNTABLE AND TRANSPARENCY
FROM QUESTIONS I'VE HAD FROM
COMMUNITY MEMBERS ABOUT HOW
EXACTLY WILL THIS ALLOW US TO
HAVE MORE CHOICES AND I'M
WONDERING IF YOU COULD EXPAND
UPON THAT A LITTLE BIT MORE.
SO LET ME FIRST START BY SAYING
THAT THE FRANCHISE AND THE
PROCESS I OUTLINED IS ABOUT
IDENTIFYING WHAT PATHWAYS ARE
OPEN TO US TO HIT OUR ZERO
GOALS RIGHT NOW THE REALITY IS
MOST PEOPLE HAVE ONE CHOICE AND
THAT'S HEATING YOUR HOME WITH
NATURAL GAS.
SOMETIMES MORE AFFLUENT
HOUSEHOLDS HAVE A CHOICE
OF MAKING A TRANSITION OVER TO
L.A. BUT THERE ARE OTHER
CHOICES THAT CERTAINLY WITHIN
H0 WE ARE LOOKING TO PRIORITIZE
AND HELP PEOPLE MAKE THE
TRANSITION SHOULD THEY WANT TO
TO KEEP HOMES AND GREATER
EFFICIENCY.
BUT THERE ARE OTHER THINGS LIKE
FOR EXAMPLE GEOTHERMAL OR
DIFFERENT HEATING TECHNOLOGY
THAT MIGHT ACTUALLY PROVE MORE
VIABLE.
SO THE IDEA HERE WITH THE
FRANCHISE IS NOT JUST TO TALK
TO DTV BUT TO TALK TO THE
ENTIRE MARKETPLACE AND SAY
THESE ARE OUR GOALS.
THIS IS WHAT COUNCILS ADOPTED
IN WHAT OUR COMMUNITY IS ASKING
FOR.
HELP US FIGURE OUT HOW TO GET
THERE.
NOT SURE IF ANSWERED YOUR
QUESTION HOW IT DID SO IT WOULD
GIVE US THE ABILITY TO ALSO
POTENTIALLY HAVE CONVERSATIONS
WITH OTHER UTILITY PROVIDERS IF
WE SO CHOOSE OK, THAT IS
PERHAPS AND WE DO ANTICIPATE
RELEASING REQUESTS OR IDEAS IN
WHICH WE'RE NOT JUST ASKING OUR
RESIDENTS.
WE CERTAINLY ARE ASKING
RESIDENTS BUT WE ALSO WANT TO
ASK THE MARKETPLACE WHAT IDEAS
DO YOU FOR HOW WE CAN HELP
GOALS.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL RACKMAN I WANTED TO
THANK DR. STULTS AND STEPH JUST
FOR YOU KNOW, APPROACHING THIS
PROBLEM WITH SO MUCH I DON'T
KNOW, THOUGHTFULNESS AND
INNOVATION.
I'M EXCITED TO JUST LIVE IN A
COMMUNITY WHERE WE'RE HAVING
THESE DISCUSSIONS AND WE HAVE
THIS OPPORTUNITY IN PARTICULAR
I'M EXCITED ABOUT THE IDEA OF ,
YOU KNOW, HAVING A SERIES
OF COMMUNITY CONVERSATIONS
AROUND THIS AND I APPRECIATE I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU NOTICED THAT
YOU DID THIS BUT YOU CALLED A
HEATING FRANCHISE INSTEAD OF A
GAS FRANCHISE AND I APPRECIATE
THAT BECAUSE I THINK IT
HIGHLIGHTS THE FACT THAT WE
HAVE MANY DIFFERENT OPTIONS FOR
HEATING OUR HOMES AND INDEED
THE TECHNOLOGY IS ALREADY HERE
TO HEAT OUR HOMES MUCH MORE
EFFICIENTLY AND MUCH MORE
SAFELY.
AND LIKE I SAID, I THINK THESE
COMMUNITY CONVERSATIONS ARE
GOING TO ALLOW US AN
OPPORTUNITY TO TALK ABOUT THOSE
OPTIONS.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
YOU KNOW, FOR MY PART I TOO I'M
INCREDIBLY EXCITED ABOUT THIS
PROJECT AND WANT TO THANK
THANKS FOR BOTH OF COURSE OCI
BUT ALSO THE LEGAL DEPARTMENT
TO FOR THE YOU KNOW, THE
EXCITING, INNOVATIVE AND LONG
RANGE WORK THAT'S BEEN DONE TO
GET US TO THIS POINT TO GET US
TO TO REALIZE AND HOPEFULLY
REALIZE THIS OPTION.
WE ALL KNOW THAT THAT THE
STATUS QUO IS NOT ACCEPTABLE
AND OUR RESIDENTS WE DESERVE
RELIABLE, AFFORDABLE, CLEAN,
HEALTHY ENERGY TO HEAT AND
POWER OUR HOMES.
YOU KNOW, BY BEGINNING THESE
DISCUSSIONS WE ARE LOOKING TO
FACILITATE MORE ENERGY CHOICES
FOR RESIDENTS.
WE ARE LISTENING TO THE VAST
MAJORITY OF ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS
AND OTHER VOTERS WHO SUPPORTED
OUR TWO ZERO PLAN IN NOVEMBER
BY THEIR VOTE.
WHAT INEBRIATES DID IS DEMAND
THAT WE TRANSITION AWAY FROM
FOSSIL FUELS THAT WE REDUCE IN
HOME POLLUTION THAT THAT LEADS
TO ASTHMA, CANCER AND LUNG
DISEASE AND THAT WE TAKE
AGGRESSIVE STEPS TO ACHIEVE OUR
GOAL OF COMMUNITY WIDE
CARBON NEUTRALITY BY 2030 THE
COUNCIL'S RESOLUTION WILL
EMPOWER THE ADMINISTRATOR TO
BEGIN INITIATING A RESPONSIBLE
CAREFUL TRANSITION TO
SUSTAINABLE HEATING IN ANN
ARBOR AND I AM INCREDIBLY
EXCITED ABOUT THIS MULTI-STEP
PROCESS AND BELIEVE THAT IT HAS
GREAT PROMISE AND I CAN'T WAIT
FOR US TO TAKE THAT NEXT
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED.
WE NOW COME TO A PUBLIC HEARING
.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER AT
THE PUBLIC HEARING SPEAKERS
PUBLIC HEARINGS DO NOT NEED TO
SIGN UP IN ADVANCE BUT THEIR
SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SUBJECT MATTER OF THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
ITEM ON THE AGENDA SPEAKERS IN
ALL CASES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTIONS TWO
ONE TO TWO TO FIVE TO NINE
OF CHAPTER TWENTY SIX SOLID
WASTE OF TITLE TWO OF THE
CODE THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
SO ANYONE ONLINE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
WHERE I DON'T SEE ANYONE ON THE
CALL FOR THIS HEARING SEE NO
ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
DAY ONE WE HAVE BEFORE US THE
REGULAR SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF MARCH SIX.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF A ONE
FAVOR POST THE MINUTES ARE
APPROVED B TO AN AUDIENCE TO
TEN SECTIONS TO TWO SECTIONS
TWO TO ONE TO TWO TO FIVE AND
TO NINE OF CHAPTER TWENTY SIX
SOLID WASTE OF TITLE TO SOLID
WASTE OF THE CODE VIDARBHA MOVE
BY COUNCILOR DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCIL NERDISH DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF B ONE OR FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED
IT'S BEEN
OBSERVED THAT R PUBLIC HEARING
IT'S BEEN OBSERVED THAT OUR
PRINTED AGENDA DOES NOT INCLUDE
REFERENCE TO PUBLIC CARRY
NUMBER TO PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
TWO IS ONLINE AND LISTED IN
REGISTRAR.
I GUESS I'LL ADD IT IS ALSO
NECESSARY THAT WE HAVE A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THAT PRIOR TO THE
VOTE AND PASSAGE OF THE
ORDINANCE.
DO I INFER?
WELL I GUESS LET ME DIRECT TO
THE CITY ATTORNEY.
IS IT DO YOU BELIEVE IT IS
NECESSARY FOR US TO POSTPONE
THIS OR CAN WE CALL THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND RELIANCE UPON THE
THE ONLINE AGENDA?
WHEN WAS IT ISSUED THE ON LINE
AGENDA SOMETHING WE SHOULD KNOW
CITY ATTORNEY I BELIEVE IT'S
JUST MISSING FROM THE AGENDA
THAT WAS PRINTED ON PAPER
TONIGHT AND IT'S BEEN ON IT WAS
PUBLISHED IN THE NEWSPAPER AND
IT'S BEEN IN THE PACKET AND
ONLINE I THINK IT'S JUST AN
ERROR ON THIS PRINTED AGENDA.
LEO DENHA, I THINK YOU SHOULD
ASK IF SOMEBODY IS HERE TO
SPEAK AT PUBLIC HEARING NO TO.
SO LET US LET US SUBMIT A
MOTION PLEASE TO OPEN THE
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCILOR WATSON
ASKING MY COUNCILOR THIS
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POLLS.
WELL ACTUALLY SHOULD WE BE
DOING THIS LET'S TAKE IT AS A
IT IS ALREADY ON THE IT'S
ALREADY ON THE AGENDA SO WE
WILL TAKE IT AS A SCRIBNER'S
ERROR AND I WILL EXPRESS REGRET
FOR HAVING SKIPPED PUBLIC
HEARING NO TOO MUCH TO MY
CHAGRIN AND MOVE FORWARD WITH
CALLING PUBLIC HEARING, NO TO
PUBLIC HEARING, NO TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER 11
RISK FUND AND REPEAL SECTION
ONE ONE NINE THREE OF CHAPTER
EIGHT ORGANIZATION OF BOARDS
COMMISSIONS OF TITLE ONE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK OF PUBLIC HEARING
NUMBER TWO WITH RESPECT TO THIS
MATTER
?
MAY I DO HAVE A CALLER ON LINE
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
AND AGAIN FIVE FIVE SIX DID YOU
HAVE A COMMENT BY THIS REAL
QUICK CALL THE FIFTH WORD I DID
WANT TO COME IN A MESSAGE SO I
APPRECIATE THE VIEWERS GETTING
THAT STRAIGHTENED OUT AND
ALLOWING THIS THEN IT JUST MAY
SEEM LIKE A SMALL POINT TO MANY
OF YOU, BUT I THINK THAT THAT
THE THESE TYPES OF CLAIMS AND
THE WAY THEY'RE PROCESSED DOES
PROVIDE AN IMPORTANT WINDOW
THAT COUNCIL CAN LOOK IN AND
STEP IN AND SEE HOW THE STAFF
IS INTERACTING WITH THE PUBLIC.
AND FOR THAT REASON I DON'T
THINK YOU SHOULD CHANGE THE
CURRENT PROCESS.
THE MISS BRIGGS PROPOSED CHANGE
TO ASK FOR A REPORTING ON IT IS
A PART HEART PARTIAL SOLUTION
BUT IT DOESN'T REALLY SOLVE THE
PROBLEM OF REALLY ELIMINATING
YOUR WATCHING STAFF INTERACT
WITH WITH RESIDENTS.
AND I SENT YOU A DETAILED EMAIL
A COUPLE OF WEEKS GO WHEN THIS
CAME UP THE FIRST TIME FIRST
READING AND I WON'T GO INTO THE
DETAIL OF THAT BUT THE GIST
OF IT WAS THAT I HAD WHAT I
THOUGHT WAS A TOTALLY
NARRATIVE.
SMELSER CLAIM IT WAS INITIALLY
DENIED THE PERSON I TALKED TO
ABOUT THAT DENIAL LETTER SAID
WELL THE CITY STAFF SAID THEY
DIDN'T CROSS YOUR SEWER BACKUPS
SO THEREFORE WE CAN MAKE FEEL
FEEL
.
I WENT TO AN APPEAL HEARING.
I'M A RETIRED LAWYER.
I WENT THERE.
I HAD AN EXPERT WITNESS FROM
DYNAMIC TRYING TO CLEAR THE
BACK UP IN THE IN THE TRAINING.
THEY SAID IT WAS INCONCEIVABLE
THAT ANY OTHER THERE WAS NO
OTHER POSSIBILITY OTHER THAN
THE REPAIR OF THE WATER MAIN
BREAK IN FRONT OF MY HOUSE AS
TO WHAT CAUSED THE CITY
ATTORNEY A YOUNG LAWYER WHOSE
NAME ESCAPES NOW WAS PRETTY
ASSERTIVE AND PRETTY AGGRESSIVE
I WOULD SAY IN SAYING LOOK, YOU
CAN'T PROVE THAT I REMINDED HIM
OF THE FIRST YEAR TORTS CASE
POLYGRAPH WHICH FOR NON SAYS
THERE'S A GIANT EXPLOSION.
YOU CAN ASSUME CAME FROM A
PARTICULAR TRAIN ENGINE IF IT
BLEW UP THE TRAIN AND THAT A
PRINCIPAL MEANS YOU DON'T HAVE
TO PROVE THE DETAILS
OF SOMETHING LIKE THAT AND THE
APPEAL WAS DENIED AGAIN AND
THIS WAS A LITTLE
DISCONCERTING.
I DON'T THINK ANYBODY WITHOUT A
LAW DEGREE WOULD HAVE GOT THAT
FAR AND I HAD TO ESSENTIALLY
THREATEN TO GO TO COURT FOR
SMALL CLAIMS OVER IT IN ORDER
TO GET ANYTHING.
I GOT ANOTHER DENIAL LETTER AND
THEN IT WAS WITH WHAT WITH THE
SETTLEMENT OFFER TO NINE NINE
HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS ON A I
DON'T KNOW ELEVEN HUNDRED
DOLLARS CLAIM I TOOK THAT I HAD
TO DICE WITH EVERY ALLY FOR
SEVERAL MONTHS ABOUT THE
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT BECAUSE IT
WAS A CLEARLY INAPPROPRIATE
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT.
I FINALLY GOT PAID ALMOST A
YEAR LATER.
I DON'T THINK THAT THAT WAS AN
APPROPRIATE WAY TO DEAL WITH
THOSE THIRTY SECOND CLAIM
OF THE TAXPAYER AND I'M NOT
SAYING CURRENT STAFF WOULD HAVE
DONE THAT OR THE LAWYER'S
OFFICE HAVE DONE THAT BUT YOU
WOULD NEVER YOU'RE NEVER GOING
TO KNOW HOW ALL OF THESE CLAIMS
ARE BEING HANDLED UNLESS YOU
ACTUALLY WATCH THEM.
THAT'S ALL I HAVE.
I DON'T WANT IT TO SOUND LIKE
SOUR GRAPES.
THAT'S REALLY NOT THE POINT.
THE POINT IS THAT THAT IT'S A
WINDOW INTO INTERACT WITH THE
PUBLIC AND THAT'S VERY
IMPORTANT.
I DON'T THINK YOU SHOULD
ELIMINATE THAT OPPORTUNITY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
, MARY?
DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS ON
THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS
RAISED
SEE ON THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER TWO PART OF ME
BE2 AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER 11 RISK FUND AND REPEAL
SECTION ONE ONE NINE THREE
OF CHAPTER EIGHT REORGANIZATION
OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
OF TITLE ONE OF THE CODE OF THE
STEPHEN ARBER MOVE BY COUNSEL
MCCONNELL SECOND BY BRACKMAN
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE TWO
COUNTERACTIVE.
THANK YOU.
THIS WAS SAID LAST TIME BUT I
FEEL LIKE IT'S WORTH SAYING
AGAIN I'M A SECOND READING THAT
OUR PRACTICES TO DATE AROUND
THIS ARE NOT NORMAL COMPARED TO
OTHER MUNICIPALITIES THAT OUR
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE LOOKED AT.
THEY LOOKED AT OTHER
MUNICIPALITY IN MICHIGAN AND
ACROSS THE COUNTRY THEY COULD
FIND NONE THAT HAD US ELECTED
COUNCIL MEMBERS ON THE RISK
FUND ADMINISTRATION.
SO I THINK THAT THAT IS IT'S
WORTH ALIGNING OUR CITY WITH
THOSE COMMON PRACTICES.
I APPRECIATE THE COMMENTS ABOUT
HAVING INSIGHT INTO STAFF
INTERACTIONS WITH OUR COMMUNITY
BUT STAFF INTERACTS WITH OUR
COMMUNITY ALL OF THE TIME AND
AND I TRUST THEM TO DO THAT.
I DO APPRECIATE THAT IT'S
INSIGHTFUL TO SEE WHAT KINDS
OF CLAIMS ARE BEING MADE
AGAINST THE CITY, WHICH IS WHY
WE HAVE A RESOLUTION LATER ON
IN THE AGENDA ABOUT THAT.
BUT JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT I
SUPPORT THAT FOR THESE REASONS
.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION,
COUNCILOR BRIGGS.
YEAH, THANKS A LOT.
SINCE WE JUST HEARD FROM A
FIFTH WARD CALLER, I GUESS I
WOULD ALSO JUST MENTION THAT IN
ADDITION TO WHAT COUNCIL MEMBER
ECKMANN SAID THAT WHILE IT'S A
WINDOW INTO THE PROCESS, IT'S
ALSO A WINDOW TO INFLUENCE THE
PROCESS AND THAT ALSO I THINK
IS INAPPROPRIATE FOR US AS
POLITICIANS TO BE POTENTIALLY
INFLUENCING A PROCESS THAT
SHOULD BE NEUTRAL AND UNBIASED
.
AND I KNOW THAT MYSELF TO BE
SOMETHING OF BLEEDING HEART.
SO IF I WERE EVER APPOINTED TO
THIS COMMISSION I WOULD I'D BE
LOBBYING FOR EVERYTHING.
IT WOULD NOT BE VERY MUCH IN
THE BENEFIT OF RESIDENTS BUT
MAYBE NOT SO MUCH IN THE ROLE
OF WHAT'S BEST FOR THE CITY AND
TAXPAYER DOLLARS.
SO THANK YOU FOR FOLKS FOR
BEING INTERESTED IN THIS BUT I
AM SUPPORTIVE THE CHANGES.
COUNCILOR, THANK YOU.
I, I JUST WANTED TO KIND
OF TAKE A STEP BACK AND EXPLAIN
KIND OF WHERE THIS CAME FROM.
THIS WAS NOT SOMETHING THAT
CAME FROM COUNCIL OBVIOUSLY IT
IS A STAFF RECOMMENDATION AND
WE DO HAVE A NEW NEWISH STILL
CITY ATTORNEY WHO IS COMING UP
ON A YEAR AND WHO HAS BEEN
REALLY SYSTEMATICALLY BEEN
LOOKING AT HOW WE DO BUSINESS
IN TERMS OF LEGAL ISSUES WITHIN
THE CITY YOU KNOW AS WELL, SHE
SAID AND AND BRINGING SOME
FRESH EYES TO THINGS AND I
THINK THAT THIS IS PROBABLY AN
OUTGROWTH OF OF THAT THOSE
EFFORTS.
IT'S IMPORTANT AGAIN TO
REITERATE THAT NO OTHER
MUNICIPAL BODY THAT WE CAN FIND
DOES IT THIS WAY AND THERE'S A
GOOD REASON FOR THAT.
SO IT'S RIGHT AND PROPER THAT
WE MAKE THIS CHANGE AND PUT
THIS RESPONSIBILITY IN THE
HANDS OF OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
AND HIS DESIGNEES AS IT SHOULD
BE AND WHILE ALSO MAINTAINING
TOTAL TRANSPARENCY IN TERMS
OF THE PAY THE PAYMENTS THAT
ARE MADE AND THE CLAIMS THAT
ARE SETTLED AND WE'LL HAVE A
AGAIN WE'LL HAVE A RESOLUTION
THAT SPEAKS TO THAT LATER.
SO I HAVE NO PROBLEM SUPPORTING
THIS.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
WHATEVER POST IT IS APPROVED.
SEE WHAT AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF TWO POINT FIVE
ACRES FROM PUBLIC LAND TO PUDI
PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
415 WEST WASHINGTON PUDI ZONING
AND SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
415 WEST WASHINGTON MOVED BY
COUNCILMAN QUINELLA SECOND BY
COUNCILOR BRIGGS DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C ONE I BELIEVE WE
HAVE AN INTRODUCTION.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
MR. LYNCH IS AVAILABLE AND WILL
HANDLE THE INTRODUCTION FOR THE
SIDE
OF MR. HUNTER IS JOINING
US ON ZOOME
.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
I THINK MR. DELLACQUA ACTUALLY
WILL BE ADDRESSING NOT GOING TO
DO IT MR. DELLA
AND I GIVE
BOGERUD I WOULD DO THE READING
TONIGHT SOMEWHERE.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR AND COUNCIL
DIRECTLY FROM THE SERVICES
ADMINISTRATOR CITY.
WE DID RECEIVE ABOUT EIGHT
QUESTIONS RELATED TO THE SITE
TONIGHT WE'RE GOING TO DO OUR
BEST TO ANSWER THEM UP FRONT
HERE AND THEN OBVIOUSLY MR.
LEONARD AND I WILL BE HERE TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING
THE PROJECT AS WE GO QUICKLY.
I'M GOING TO SAY OUT FRONT THAT
THE PROJECT THE PROPOSED PARTY
IS IN RESPONSE TO CITY COUNCIL
RESOLUTION TWENTY TO THE
DIRECTED STAFF TO PRESENT
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
REDEVELOPMENT OF THE SITE ALONG
WITH MANY OTHERS IN THE CITY
PRIMARILY FOR CONSIDERATION
OF RESIDENTIAL USE.
WE'VE BEEN AT THIS FOR
CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF TIME AND
I'M GRATEFUL TO BE HERE TODAY
TO DISCUSS IT.
THE FIRST QUESTION WE HAVE IS A
REQUEST FOR AN AMENDMENT
LANGUAGE TO INCLUDE
SUSTAINABILITY REQUIREMENTS
INTO SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
FOR 15.
WASHINGTON STATED THAT THE GOAL
IS THAT ANY FUTURE BUILDING
THAT MAXIMIZES ENERGY
EFFICIENCY IN HIS MIND WITH A
GOAL ARROW QUESTION STATES AS I
THINK ALL OF US BELIEVE THAT
ZERO BUT IS WILLING TO CONSIDER
NET ZERO READY IF THAT IS MORE
VIABLE AT THIS TIME STAFF AND
NYC PLANNING STAFFING SITE
DISCUSSED THIS TODAY AND
OFFERED SOME LANGUAGE BOTH IN
AN EMAIL THAT WE SENT OUT TO
THE ASQAR AND THOSE WHO
ASSISTED AND READ IN SUMMARY
THE FOLLOWING IF IT IS DESIRED
TO ADD PROPOSED LANGUAGE THE
FOLLOWING LANGUAGE IS PROPOSED
BY PLANNING AND ALISI AND COULD
BE ADDED TO THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS REFERENCED
SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENT OF UTC
IS DEFINED AS FOLLOWS WHEN AND
WHERE A SOLAR COLLECTOR SURFACE
COVERS AT LEAST 60 PERCENT
OF THE BUILDING'S FOOTPRINT
AREA ON SITE AND THE ELECTRICAL
PANELS ON THE BUILDINGS HAVE
CAPACITY TO SOLELY HOW WOULD
THE SITE BY ELECTRICITY
INCLUDING ANY CONDUIT AND OTHER
NECESSARY INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
FUTURE CONVERSIONS IF COMPLETE
ELECTRIC LOCATION IS THAT
ACHIEVABLE AT THE TIME
OF INITIAL CONSTRUCTION?
SO THE AMENDMENT WOULD BE THE
ADDITION OF THE FOLLOWING A
LANGUAGE TO THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATION SECTION BEFORE THE
REGULATION G ANY DEVELOPMENT
OF THE PRIORITY ARE THE
PROPERTY SHALL COMPLY WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENT OF THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE THAT
IS VERY BRIEFLY WOULD APPLY
THAT SECTION CODE TO ANY
PROJECT THAT CAME BEFORE TO THE
CITY IN THE FUTURE.
QUESTION TO AS THE CITY
CONSIDERED THE OPTION TO CLEAN
UP THE SITE TO RECREATION
STANDARDS WITH THE AIM TO
ABSORB STORMWATER.
AS I UNDERSTAND WE HAVE OTHER
FLOODPLAIN PROPERTIES THE
CITIES HAVE THE CITY HAS
PURCHASED.
IF SO WHAT WOULD BE THE COST
AND HOW COULD THAT BE FUNDED?
ANSWER RECREATIONAL STANDARDS
STANDARDS ARE DETERMINED ON A
SITE BY SITE BASIS AND CONSULT
AND CONSULT
IN CONSULTATION
WITH THE MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT
OF ENVIRONMENT, GREAT LAKES AND
ENERGY STAFF HAS BEEN WORKING
FROM THE DIRECTION OF THE CITY
COUNCIL TO EXPLORE HOUSING FOR
THIS LOCATION SITE HAS NOT BEEN
EVALUATED FOR STORMWATER
INFRASTRUCTURE AS ITS PRIMARY
USE.
IT IS ESTIMATED THAT THE COST
OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL
REMEDIATION FOR RECREATION
WOULD BE SIMILAR TO OR HIGHER
THAN THE RESIDENT.
THE ESTIMATED COST
OF RESIDENTIAL CLEANUP THAT IS
PRIMARILY DUE TO CONCERNS ARE
INCREASED WHEN YOU HAVE A
RECREATIONAL USE ABOUT DIRECT
CONTACT WITH SOIL ANOTHER USE
ON THE PROPERTY.
SO AS THE CITY IS LIKELY A
RESPONSIBLE PARTY WHEN IT COMES
TO PAYING FOR THE REMEDIATION
IT WOULD BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
CLEANUP OF CONTAMINATION AT THE
SITE WITHOUT THE BENEFIT OF ANY
PRIVATE INVESTMENT.
PROVIDE FINANCIAL SUPPORT
THROUGH TAX INCOME TAX
INCREMENT FINANCING.
THUS THE ONLY REAL VEHICLE WE
KNOW OF RIGHT NOW THAT COULD
COVER THOSE COSTS WOULD BE THE
GENERAL FUND.
HAVE WE CONSIDERED THE QUESTION
THREE HAVE WE CONSIDERED THE
BENEFITS PERHAPS IN TERMS
OF SAVINGS ON FLOOD INSURANCE
REDUCING FLOODING TO
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES, SAVINGS
OF EMERGENCY CITY RESPONSE
OF MAKING THE SITE BY THE WAY,
PARK RESPONSE FLOOD INSURANCE
RATES ARE ESTABLISHED CITYWIDE
WHILE THE DIRECTION WHILE THE
DECISIONS THAT THE CITY
COLLECTIVELY MAKES ON PROPERTY
REGULATIONS OTHER MEASURES CAN
IMPACT THE CITY'S FLOOD
INSURANCE RATES POSITIVELY OR
NEGATIVELY.
THIS IS REVIEWED AT A COMMUNITY
WIDE SCALE AND DOES NOT
FLUCTUATE BASED ON INDIVIDUAL
SITE DECISIONS.
QUESTION FOR FLOOD PLAIN MAPS
CAN WE TRUST?
SOME HAVE SUGGESTED THAT FEMA
MAPS ARE INACCURATE AND
OUTDATED IN THE FLOODWAY
FLOODPLAIN IS LIKELY LARGER
PRENTICE'S PLUS CLIMATE CHANGE
.
FEMA MAPS ARE THE MAPS
OF RECORD TO BASE NUMEROUS
POLICY DECISIONS ON EVENTS SUCH
AS FLOOD SUCH AS THE FLOOD
PLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT ADOPTED
IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE WHICH
INCLUDES 415 WEST WASHINGTON
ACTUAL ON SITE ELEVATIONS ARE
FURTHER USED TO DELINEATE FLOOD
PLAIN IMPACTS ON ANY SITE AND
HAS BEEN STATED I THINK ON
SEVERAL OCCASIONS WITH THIS
SITE.
EVERYTHING THAT IS PROPOSED AND
EVERYTHING THAT WILL COME
FORWARD TO COUNCIL WILL MEET
THAT RECENTLY ABOUT THE FLOOD
PLAIN ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY IN
REGARDS TO THESE REGULATIONS.
QUESTION FIVE DOES I MEDIATION
PLAN EXPLICITLY TAKE INTO
ACCOUNT THAT THE SITE IS A
FLOODPLAIN?
PERMEABLE BARRIERS WORK WHEN
THERE IS FLOODING ANSWER YES.
THESE BARRIERS WORK IN AN AREA
WITH FLOODING AS IT IS OFTEN
CORRESPONDS TO A WATER TABLE
THAT IS CONDUCIVE TO MOVING
CONTAMINANTS THROUGH THE
BARRIERS TO PROVIDE TREATMENT.
QUESTION SIX IS THE HEIGHT
OF 70 FEET IN CONFLICT WITH
WHAT IS ALLOWABLE WOULD BE TO
ANSWER IN THE LIMIT FOR THIS
SITE AND THE DETA WOULD BE
SEVENTY OR SEVENTY EIGHT FEET
DEPENDING ON THE PROVISIONS
OF THE UNIFIED DESIGN
DEVELOPMENT QUESTION SEVEN IS
IT ACCURATE THAT THE DC HAS
SAID THEY WOULD REJECT THE
DEVELOPMENT THAT MAXIMIZED THE
ELEMENT IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS?
IF SO, ARE WE PRESENTING
DEVELOPERS WITH A CONCEPT PLAN
THAT MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL WHEN
IT GOES IN FRONT OF THE DC IN
THE FUTURE RESPONSE AT THE
RECENT WORKING SESSION HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION EXPRESSED
CONCERN SHOULD THE PROJECT
MAXIMIZE THE BUILDING ENVELOPE,
HOWEVER, IS ALSO DIFFICULT FOR
THE COMMISSION TO APPLY THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
WHICH GOVERN THAT REVIEW TO
CONCEPTUAL MARSING DIAGRAMS
PRESENTED TO DATE THE PROPOSED
PUDI PROVIDES A LIMIT WHICH ANY
PROPOSAL WHICH ANY PROPOSAL
WILL NEED TO WORK WITHIN TO
MEET THE APPROVAL OF THE
COMMISSION AS DEMONSTRATED BY
ONGOING DIALOG WITH HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
THEY REMAIN AN IMPORTANT
PARTNER AS THE CITY MOVES
FORWARD WITH THE DESIGN OF THE
SITE WITH ANY DEVELOPMENT
PARTNER AND AS YOU'LL HEAR
SPREADIN AND I TALK ABOUT
REPEATEDLY TONIGHT AT THIS
POINT IT IS IMPORTANT THAT WE
WE BELIEVE IT'S IMPORTANT TO
BRING THAT DEVELOPMENT PARTNER
INTO THE PROCESS SO WE CAN
FURTHER BY THE DETAILS THE CDC
NEEDS TO MAKE SUCH DECISIONS
ULTIMATELY THEY HAVE THAT
AUTHORITY TO MAKE AN UP OR DOWN
DECISION ON THE OUTSIDE
ELEMENTS OF THE SITE.
WOULD THE COST BE LOWER OR
HIGHER FOR REMEDIATION IF WE
WEREN'T GOING TO PLACE HOUSING
ON THE SITE AND WE'RE SEEKING
TO CONVERT THE SITE TO GREEN
SPACE IN OUR CONVERSATIONS WITH
ENVIRONMENTAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL
FOLKS LIKELY HIRE AS LESS
PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT OCCURS ON
THE SITE DESIGN MONITORING AND
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PERIMETER
PERMEABLE REACTIVE BARRIERS
WOULD BECOME MORE CRITICAL AS
ANY DESIGN ELEMENTS WOULD NEED
TO ADDRESS POTENTIAL EXPOSURES
TO CONTAMINATION.
FOR EXAMPLE, A STORMWATER POND
OR OTHER RECREATIONAL USES ON
SITE WOULD PROVIDE A GREATER
OPPORTUNITY FOR POTENTIAL
ELIMINATION, EXPOSURE AND
EQUIVALENT CONDITIONS BUILDING
OR PARKING AREA I.E. IF THE
SITE IS RECREATIONAL OR NOT
CAMP THE CONTENT THE
POSSIBILITIES OF DIRECT
CONNECTION TO THE CONTAMINATION
INCREASE THEREFORE THE COST
OF REMEDIATION GOES UP AGAIN AS
WE'VE GONE THROUGH THIS PROCESS
STAFF HAS BEEN DIRECTED TO THIS
POINT TO CONSIDER HOUSING FOR
THE SITE RECREATION AND OPEN
SPACE.
IT WAS NOT DIRECTOR OF THE
COUNCIL AT THIS POINT BUT WE
DID HAVE SOME TIME TODAY TO
TALK TO OUR ENVIRONMENTAL
EXPERTS THAT THAT WAS HOW THEY
ADVISED US TODAY ON THE SITE.
THAT'S ALL FOR THE PREPRINTED
QUESTIONS AND OBVIOUSLY WE ARE
HERE TO ANSWER ANYTHING ELSE
YOU MAY HAVE SINCE THE
DISCUSSION IS IMPORTANT.
THANK YOU.
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
.
THANK YOU.
WE ARE ASKED TO REZONE APPROVE
FOR RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT A
2.5 ACRE SITE LOCATED IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
AND THE ALLEN CREEK FLOODPLAIN
.
THE REZONING PETITION IS
ACCOMPANIED BY A CONCEPT PLAN
FOR AN ELEVATED RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURE OF ABOUT 130 4000
SQUARE FEET FIVE STORIES AT ITS
HIGHEST POINT WITH PARKING
PROVIDED UNDERNEATH AND PARKING
CAPPED AT ONE SPACE PER UNIT
THERE WILL BE A MINIMUM
OF SIXTY PERCENT OF THE SITE
REQUIRED TO BE PRESERVED AS
OPEN SPACE AND EITHER THE GREAT
THE GREATER OF 15 PERCENT OR 15
UNITS OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS
ALSO REQUIRED CAN BE DONE ON
SITE OR BY PAYMENT IN LIEU AS
IS CONSTRUCTION OF A SEGMENT
OF THE TREE LINE TRAIL MIXED
USE WILL BE ALLOWED IN 2019
COUNCIL ASKED STAFF TO EXPLORE
DEVELOPING HOUSING ON THIS SITE
TOGETHER WITH SEVERAL OTHER
UNDERUTILIZED CITY OWNED
PROPERTIES WE LEARNED EARLY ON
BECAUSE IT IS CONTAMINATED AND
LIES IN CLOSE PROXIMITY TO THE
RAILROAD 415 WEST WASHINGTON
WOULD BE INELIGIBLE FOR FEDERAL
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUNDING.
THE CURRENT SITE IS VACANT.
IT CONTAINS AN EXISTING
BUILDING THAT IS FUNCTIONALLY
OBSOLETE, BLIGHTED AND SITS
FOUR TO 10 FEET BELOW THE
FLOODPLAIN.
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION APPROVED ITS
DEMOLITION IN SEPTEMBER 2008 IN
JUDGING THAT ADAPTIVE REUSE
WOULD NOT BE POSSIBLE.
THE SITE IS CURRENTLY ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE WITH NO STORMWATER
CONTROLS WHATSOEVER.
IT CONTAINS REMNANTS OF ROAD
SALT FROM WHEN IT HOUSED THE
WASHINGTON COUNTY ROAD
COMMISSION PLUS TWO HIGHLY
FLAMMABLE CARCINOGENIC
CHEMICALS AS THE OWNER OF THE
SITE, THE CITY IS LIKELY THE
PRIMARY RESPONSIBLE PARTY FOR
THE CONTAMINATION.
STAFF ADVISES US AS YOU'VE
HEARD, THAT OUR BEST STRATEGY
FOR MEETING THAT RESPONSABLE BE
CLEANING UP THE SITE AND
SERVING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
GOALS IS TO SELL THE SITE TO A
PRIVATE DEVELOPER AND MAKE A
BROWNFIELD PLAN.
A VIABLE BROWNFIELD PLAN WILL
NECESSITATE RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT AND WE HAVE
SPECIFIED WITH THIS PUDI THAT
IT WILL REQUIRE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PAYMENT IN LIEU OR
UNITS WE HAVE HEARD CONCERNS
ABOUT PURSUING RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT IN A FLOODPLAIN.
LET ME UNDERSCORE THAT THIS
PUDI ZONING WILL ENSURE
CONSIDERABLY BETTER FLOOD WATER
MANAGEMENT THAN WHAT CURRENTLY
EXISTS.
IT REPLACES A STRUCTURE THAT
SITS BELOW THE FLOODPLAIN,
PROVIDES STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
WHERE THERE IS NONE
SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCES
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AND CONFORMS
FULLY WITH THE CITY'S REVISED
AND STRENGTHENED FLOODPLAIN
ORDINANCE WHICH COUNCIL
APPROVED IN JANUARY 2021.
THAT ORDINANCE REQUIRES
RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION IN THE
FLOOD FRINGE NOT THE FLOODWAY
BECAUSE YOU CAN'T DO IT THERE
TO BE ELEVATED ONE FOOT OVER
FLOOD LEVEL THAT HAS A POINT
TWO OR ONE IN FIVE HUNDRED
ANNUAL CHANCE OF OCCURRING THE
CITY'S FLOODPLAIN STAFF WROTE
THAT ORDINANCE A GUIDE SAFE
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT IN THE
FLOOD FRINGE THE CITY'S FLOOD
STAFF ALSO WROTE A HAZARD
HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN WHOSE
ASPIRATES GOALS ARE HIGHER THAN
THE STANDARDS OF THE ORDINANCE
COUNCIL.
YES, I CAN COME BACK TO THIS.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCILOR
BRIGS SO THANK YOU AS USUAL.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH HAS
COVERED A NUMBER OF THE
CRITICAL DETAILS ABOUT THE
PROJECT AND I'M SURE TO HAVE
MORE TO SHARE.
I'D LIKE TO START BY THINKING
MR DELACOURT AND MR LEONARD AND
OTHER PLANNING STAFF FOR THEIR
EXTENSIVE WORK ON THIS REALLY
DIFFICULT SITE.
WHAT WE HAVE BEFORE US IS A
PROJECT CLEANS UP A POLLUTED
AND BLIGHTED SITE IN THE FIFTH
WARD AND ADVANCES THE NUMBER
OF OUR COMMUNITY PRIORITIES
COUNCIL MEMBER JUST MENTIONED
MANY OF THEM BUT JUST TO TO
REVIEW OR YOU KNOW, WE'RE
MEDIATING THE ENVIRONMENTAL
CONTAMINATION.
WE'RE ADDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IN ADDITION TO LIKELY OTHER
HOUSING ON THE SITE OR FUNDING
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PROTECTING THE CHIMNEY SWIFT
HABITAT WHERE IT WOULD BE
CONSTRUCTION OF A 50 FOOT WIDE
FOOTPATH WITH A TREE LINED
TRAIL.
SO ON AND ON WE ARE SEEING
IMPROVEMENTS ON SITE.
BUT I'D ALSO I'D ALSO LIKE TO
THANK THE MANY RESIDENTS WE'VE
REACHED OUT TO ME ABOUT THIS
PROJECT BOTH IN SUPPORT AND
WITH CONCERNS.
THE CONCERNS AS WE HEARD IN
PUBLIC COMMENT PRIMARILY
PRIMARILY HAVE CENTERED AROUND
COMPATIBILITY WITH THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT AND FLOOD BANK
FLOODPLAIN CONCERNS THE FDIC
HAS REVIEWED AND PROVIDED
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT HAVE
INFORMED THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS AND CONCEPT PLAN
AND THEY WILL NEED TO APPROVE
THE FINAL PLAN AND
YOU KNOW,
EARLY ON THE FLOODAIN ISSUES
WERE WHAT GAVE ME THE MOST
PAUSE WITH THIS PROJECT AND
THAT'S WHY ONE OF THE FIRST
THINGS THAT COUNCIL MEMBER DID
AND I DID AFTER STARTING OUR
TERMS WAS TO SIT DOWN WITH
NUMEROUS STAFF MEMBERS FROM
MULTIPLE SPECIALTY AREAS TO
DISCUSS THE TRADE OFFS ON THIS
SITE.
AND SAM KATZ MEMBER JUST NOTED
ALL THE IMPROVEMENTS THAT WE'RE
SEEING IN TERMS OF FLOODPLAIN
MANAGEMENT.
SO I'M NOT GOING TO REVIEW
THOSE THE ONE THING THAT I DO
THINK IS WORTH DISCUSSING A
LITTLE BIT MORE TONIGHT IS
THERE'S ONE PIECE THAT'S
MISSING FROM OUR THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS THAT
IS A COMMUNITY PRIORITY AND A
PRETTY CRITICAL COMMUNITY
PRIORITY.
SO AND THAT IS THE ALIGNMENT
WITH ANY FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
WITH OUR H0 PLAN.
SO YOU KNOW, I'M LOOKING AT
THIS THROUGH AN ENVIRONMENTAL
LENS PRIMARILY THERE'S A LOT
OF SITES, A LOT OF ISSUES THAT
COULD BE PRIORITIZED IN THIS
SITE BUT FUNDAMENTALLY WE ARE
SEEKING TO CLEAN UP A
ENVIRONMENTALLY CONTAMINATED
SITE IN THE FIFTH WARD ON A
FLOODPLAIN.
WHAT WE PUT BACK THERE NEEDS TO
BE SOMETHING THAT IS NOT
CONTRIBUTING TO CLIMATE CHANGE
IN MY OPINION THAT IS
BENEFICIAL TO THE ENVIRONMENT.
SO I'D LIKE TO PUT FORWARD A
MOTION AND THAT IS TO BASICALLY
TO DIRECT STAFF TO DEVELOP
LANGUAGE FOR THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS THAT ADVANCES ARE
TWO ZERO GREEN BUILDING
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND
RESULTS IN AN ENERGY EFFICIENT
NET ZERO BUILDING OR NET ZERO
READY BUILDING.
I DISCUSSED MARK THERE'S A
SECOND TO THAT.
WHAT IS HE?
CAN YOU RESTATE THE EXACT TEXT
?
SURE, YES.
IT'S A MOTION TO DIRECT STAFF
TO DEVELOP LANGUAGE FOR THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS THAT
ADVANCES ARE OUR TWO ZERO GOALS
OUR GREEN BUILDING AND
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND
RESULTS IN AN ENERGY EFFICIENT
NET ZERO BUILDING OR NET ZERO
READY BUILDING.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO TAKE SOME
TIME TO DEVELOP LANGUAGE THAT
CAN BE PRESENTED TO US BY
SECOND READING.
SO THIS IS BASICALLY ASKING
THEM TO DEVELOP THAT LANGUAGE
BETWEEN NOW AND THE SECOND
SECOND READING SECOND BY
COUNCILOR DENHA AND I CAN GO
INTO IT ON THE AMENDMENT.
YEAH.
SO BUDGET SO YOU'RE NOT
PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO THE
ORDINANCE?
I'M NOT NO.
SO IT'S NOT SO THIS ISN'T AN
AMENDMENT IT'S NOT AN AMENDMENT
THE MOTION TO DIRECT STAFF TO
BRING FORWARD LANGUAGE DOESN'T
THAT NEED TO BE ADDED TO THE
AGENDA SEPARATELY AS A SEPARATE
NOW I THAT THAT COULD RESULT IN
AN AMENDMENT?
YES, I CHECKED IN WITH POINT SO
THIS WOULD BE A SEPARATE MOTION
THOUGH AND I THINK THE
ORDINANCE WOULD HAVE TO BE
POSTPONED IF YOU WANT TO KEEP
IT SOUND, LET ME SUGGEST
PERHAPS THAT WHAT YOU'RE
LOOKING FOR IS A POSTPONEMENT
OF THE NO OK, MAYBE I'LL JUST
USE THIS AS WE CAN DISCUSS IF
WE WHY DON'T I I'LL USE MY
SECOND SPEAKING TIME IN A
MOMENT TO DISCUSS US MORE AND
WE CAN HAVE A DISCUSSION OF A
MOTION.
HOW ABOUT WE DO THAT?
SURE.
AND WE LIKE TO DISCUSS THE MAIN
MOTION PRIOR TO ANY CHANGE.
COUNCILOR BRACKMAN, THANK YOU.
FIRST OFF, I JUST WANTED TO
RECOGNIZE THAT I'M COMING IN AT
THE END OF WHAT I HAVE LEARNED
HAS BEEN A YEARS LONG PROCESS
TO IDENTIFY A SOLUTION FOR THIS
BLIGHTED PROPERTY IN A FLOOD
ZONE AND I REALLY APPRECIATE
THE WORK OF PLANNING STAFF
PLANNING COMMISSION COMMUNITY
MEMBERS TO IDENTIFY A WAY
FORWARD.
I THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF CONSIDERATIONS WITH THIS
PROJECT THAT DON'T MAKE THE
DECISION NECESSARILY A SIMPLE,
EASY, STRAIGHTFORWARD ONE WHICH
PROBABLY EXPLAINS WHY IT HAS
SET LIKE IT IS FOR SO LONG.
SO I JUST WANT TO JUST SAY A
FEW WORDS ABOUT THE THINGS THAT
THE VALUES THAT I'M THINKING
ABOUT AS CONCERNS THE PUDI
BEFORE US NUMBER ONE THE
CREATION OF DESPERATELY NEEDED
HOUSING FOR OUR CITY INCLUDING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
WE'RE IN A HOUSING CRISIS.
I PLAN TO TAKE EVERY
OPPORTUNITY I CAN TO ADDRESS
THIS ISSUE BY MAKING SURE WE
ADD MORE HOUSING WHERE IT MAKES
SENSE TO AS HAS BEEN MENTIONED,
THE CLEAN UP AND TOXIC
REMEDIATION OF THE SITE.
WE KNOW THIS SITE IS A
BROWNFIELD CONTAINING TOXIC
POLLUTION AND IT IS SPREADING
THE STREET TO THE SURROUNDING
AREA.
IT NEEDS TO BE CLEANED UP SO WE
DON'T WANT IT TO CONTINUE
SITTING IN THE STATE THAT IT IS
THREE THAT IT'S DONE
RESPONSIBLY AND WITH CLIMATE
CHANGE AND COMMUNITY RESILIENCE
IN MIND.
AS I SAID, THIS PROPERTY IS IN
A FLOODPLAIN, SOMETHING THAT
SEVERAL RESIDENTS HAVE REACHED
OUT TO US ABOUT.
WE KNOW THAT WE'RE EXPERIENCING
MORE EXTREME WEATHER RELATED
EVENTS SUCH AS FLOODING AND OUR
COMMUNITY, YOU KNOW, IN THE
GREATER STATE OF MICHIGAN IS
POISED TO BE A CLIMATE REFUGE
HAND AS SPELLED OUT IN OUR ZERO
PLAN.
WE KNOW THAT WE NEED TO BUILD
RESILIENCE TO CLIMATE CHANGE,
WHICH IS SOMETHING THAT I
REALLY VALUE.
SO WHEN I GRAPPLED ON THIS
TOPIC ABOUT WHETHER THIS WAS
ENVIRONMENTALLY SOUND OR PUTS
OUR COMMUNITY IN DANGER, I WAS
LOOKING AT THE PLANS THAT
SPECIFICALLY DEALT WITH THIS
AND I THINK AS COUNCIL MEMBER
JOSH SAID, WE NEED TO RECOGNIZE
THAT WHAT'S BEING PROPOSED IS A
VAST IMPROVEMENT FROM A
FLOODING PERSPECTIVE THAN WHAT
HAS BEEN SITTING THERE FOR
DECADES.
ALSO THE PUDI TURNS THE ENTIRE
FLOODWAY INTO THE TREE LINE
TRAIL WHICH IS A MASSIVE
COMMUNITY BENEFIT RIGHT NOW
IT'S COVERED BY IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE SECOND, THE RESIDENTIAL
PORTION IS IN THE FLOOD FRINGE
AND WOULD FULLY CONFORM IF I
UNDERSTAND MR DELACOURT
COMMENTS TONIGHT EXCEEDS THE
RECENTLY ADOPTED CITY ORDINANCE
THAT STIPULATES HOW RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENTS CAN BE BUILT IN
OUR CITY TODAY.
LASTLY, IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE
HAVE A WAY TO PAY FOR IT.
THIS IS GOING TO BE EXPENSIVE
NOW WE KNOW IT'S GOING TO BE
EVEN MORE EXPENSIVE IF IT'S FOR
SIMPLY JUST RECREATIONAL USE
WITH NO RESIDENTIAL THIS PLAN
DOESN'T PUT THE CITY ON THE
LINE TO PAY FOR IT AGAIN,
SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN SITTING
THERE FOR YEARS WITH NO
SOLUTION.
SO THOSE ARE THE THINGS THAT
I'M THINKING ABOUT AS I
CONSIDER US.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION,
COUNCILOR JOSH, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
COUNCIL MEMBER AND COUNCIL
MEMBER BREAKS THOSE ARE BOTH
REALLY ELOQUENT COMMENTS.
I DID WANT TO AGAIN ADDRESS
HEAD ON THE TENSION THAT PEOPLE
HAVE RAISED BETWEEN THEM
ASPIRATIONAL DOCUMENT OF OUR
HAZARDOUS GUIDE THE HAZARD I'M
SORRY HAZARD MANAGEMENT PLAN
AND THE STRENGTHENED FLOOD
PLAIN ORDINANCE.
I WANT TO SAY THAT THE
ORDINANCE IS AND SHOULD BE NOT
JUST THAT IT IS LEGAL LEGALLY
BUT IT SHOULD BE THE DECIDING
STANDARD.
THE ORDINANCE PROVIDES
GUARDRAILS FOR MAKING PRUDENT
LAND USE DECISIONS IN A CONTEXT
WHERE WE SEEK THE BEST BALANCE
BETWEEN STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
AND OTHER CITY PRIORITIES SUCH
AS COUNCIL MEMBER ADMIN JUST
MENTIONED SITUATING HOUSING
WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE OF JOBS
AND SERVICES.
THE FLOOD AND CONCERNS PEOPLE
HAVE RAISED WITH RESPECT TO 415
WEST WASHINGTON AREN'T REALLY
ABOUT THE SITE THEY RAISE THE
BROADER QUESTION WHETHER WE
TRUST THE ORDINANCE THAT
FLOODPLAIN STAFF HAS WRITTEN
AND COUNCIL PASSED JUST OVER
TWO YEARS AGO.
IF WE WANT TO CHANGE THE
FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE TO MATCH
OUR ASPIRATIONAL GOALS FOR
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT WE CAN DO
THAT.
BUT WE NEED TO ASK OURSELVES
HOW THE URGENT CONCERN ABOUT
HOUSING SUPPLY THE CITY STACKS
UP AGAINST AN IDEAL STANDARD
OF MEETING OUR HIGHEST
ASPIRATIONS REGARDING
STRUCTURES IN THE FLOOD FRENCH
AND I WILL UNDERSCORE WHAT
COUNCIL MEMBER ADMIN JUST SAID
WHICH IS THAT IF COUNCIL OPTED
TO TURN THE PROPERTY INTO A
PARK OR OTHER WITHOUT ANY
RESIDENTIAL USE ON THE WORK
OF DEMOLISHING THE STRUCTURE,
REMEDIATING THE CONTAMINATION
TO THE HIGHEST LEVEL AND
PRESERVING THE HABITAT WOULD
COST MILLIONS OF DOLLARS FOR
WHICH WE HAVE NO FUNDING SOURCE
OTHER THAN THE GENERAL FUND
WHICH IS COMMITTED.
MOREOVER, I WOULD LIKE TO SAY
THAT THIS PROCESS WAS DESIGNED
TO PROVIDE US WITH WHAT STAFF
CONSIDERS TO BE A FEASIBLE
PROJECT AND A GOOD BALANCE
AMONG COMPETING CITY
PRIORITIES.
WE ARE OFTEN IN THE SITUATION
OF LEAVING IT UP TO THE
DEVELOPER WHO IS AN INTERESTED
PARTY TO GIVE US THEIR OPINION
ON WHAT CAN AND CAN BE DONE IN
THIS CASE STAFF FROM MULTIPLE
DEPARTMENTS HAVE PROVIDED
COUNSEL AND THEY HAVE REACHED
AGREEMENT.
MR DELACOURT, MY SOURCES TELL
ME YOU HAD YOUR HAND.
IT WAS I WAS GOING TO OFFER
THAT WE HAD PROVIDED SOME
LANGUAGE REGARDING THE ABILITY
AND I KNOW IN CONVERSATIONS
WITH MY REGRET HER INTENT IS
NOT TO AMEND THE ORDINANCE OR
DELAY THIS BUT TO ADD LANGUAGE
THAT WOULD ADD LANGUAGE TO THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS THAT
WOULD REQUIRE AT A MINIMUM A
NET ZERO READY BUILDING.
I THINK THAT'S A DIRECTION
COUNCIL WANTS TO GO AND IF
THAT'S THE LANGUAGE OF THE
MOTION THAT'S BEING PROPOSED,
THAT'S SOMETHING WE CAN DO AND
ADD INTO THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS
PRIOR TO SECOND READING.
SO WHAT I HEAR YOU SAYING IS
THAT YOU BELIEVE THAT STAFF CAN
TAKE GENERAL DIRECTION ON THIS
POINT AND ADD SOMETHING ON ITS
OWN LIGHTS TO THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATION PRIOR TO SECOND
READING IN A WAY THAT WOULD NOT
NECESSITATE US EITHER AMENDING
THE THE ORDINANCE AS IS OR
ASSUMING CITY ATTORNEY'S
ACQUIESCENCE BRING US BACK TO
THE FIRST READING CORRECT
I
THINK THE LANGUAGE UM BUT ONE
THING BUT HE SAYS IT OR I CAN
SAY IF COUNCIL WANTED TO AMEND
THE ORDINANCE TONIGHT OR AMEND
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION
THERE SHOULD AMEND THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION TONIGHT
TO REQUIRE THAT THE PROPOSALS
IDENTIFY AT A MINIMUM AND LET
ZERO ALREADY BUILDING
.
I THINK THAT'S POSSIBLE WITH
MAYOR.
DO I HEAR SO WHAT I HEAR YOU
MR. DELACOURT IS THAT YOU
BELIEVE YOU HAVE LANGUAGE
SUITABLE FOR AMENDING TONIGHT
THAT WILL ACHIEVE THE GOAL THAT
WOULD ACHIEVE THE GOAL THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS'S
EXPRESSED.
WELL, I THINK IF THE MINIMUM IF
THE DESIRED STANDARD IS TO
AMEND THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATION IN A MANNER THAT
WOULD REQUIRE PROPOSALS TO
RESPOND IN A MANNER INDICATING
THAT THE BUILDING WOULD BE NET
ZERO READY THAT THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT IS ACCEPTABLE.
TAUXE SO THERE IS YOU COULD
PROVIDE IF WE BROKE FOR A BILL
BREAKING RECONVENED AT NINE TEN
WE WOULD HAVE THAT LANGUAGE.
MR. MAYOR I'M SORRY MR. TONY.
I'M NOT OPPOSITE OF WHERE MR.
DELACOURT IS JUST A LITTLE
CONFUSED ABOUT PROCEDURAL HOW
WE'RE TRYING TO GO ABOUT IT.
STAFF DOES NOT HAVE THE
AUTHORITY TO SUBSTITUTE ITS
JUDGMENT FOR A SITTING COUNCIL
MEMBER DURING DEBATE.
SO WHAT HAS HAPPENED?
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS DID NOT
MOVE TO AMEND.
SHE DID NOT PUT FORWARD A
SUBSTITUTE MOTION.
SHE'S REALLY CALLING FOR A
SEPARATE ACTION.
THEREFORE THE MOTION ON THE
FLOOR HAS TO BE DEALT WITH
BEFORE WE CAN GET TO IF AND THE
STAFF CAN'T KNOW WHAT I WHAT I
HEAR.
MR. DELACOURT SAYING IS IN
ACCORD WITH WHAT WHAT WOULD YOU
HAVE OBSERVED?
I HEAR MR. DELACOURT SAYING
THAT HE HAS LISTENED TO COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS.
HE BELIEVES THAT THERE IS
LANGUAGE ON THE READY WHICH IF
IMPLEMENTED PROPOSED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS AND AND SECONDED
AND APPROVED BY COUNCIL WOULD
AFFECT AN AMENDMENT TO THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS IN
ACCORDANCE WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS AND BY EXTENSION SHOULD
IT BE COUNCILS COUNCIL'S
INSTRUCTIONS AND THEN WE WOULD
HAVE AN AMENDMENT OF THE
EXISTING REGULATIONS.
MR. DELACOURT WOULD HAVE BEEN
RESPONSIVE TO WHAT HE WAS
HEARING IN THE COURSE OF DEBATE
AND AND WE WOULD MOVE FORWARD
AS AMENDED.
COULD I POSE A QUESTION PLEASE?
SO THIS IS THIS IS ALL ABSENT
REVIEW BY THE CITY ATTORNEY.
YES.
I WOULD NOT HAVE SEEN THIS
LANGUAGE BEFORE
OF MR. LEONARD
.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I WOULD JUST ADD TYPICALLY WITH
AND OF COURSE I WOULD DEFER TO
THE CITY ATTORNEY BUT I WOULD
JUST OBSERVE THAT WHENEVER
POSSIBLE.
WE WANT CONSISTENCY BETWEEN OUR
FIRST READING AND SECOND
READING.
PART OF THE EMPHASIS OF THAT IS
TO PROVIDE CLEAR EXPECTATION
OF HOW AN ORDINANCE MIGHT BE
REALIZED AND TO SHARE THAT WITH
PUBLIC OBLIGATION.
I WOULD SUGGEST THAT THE
PROPOSED CHANGES THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGGS'S IS REQUESTING A
RESOLUTION OR OTHER WHY
OTHERWISE OR MR. DELACOURT JUST
ASSERTING THAT WE WOULD BE
HAPPY TO FOLLOW UP WITH THAT
WOULD BE ADDING ADDITIONAL
RESTRICTIONS TO AN ORDINANCE
THAT IS ON THE PLATE FOR
TREATING IT WOULD ADD
POTENTIALLY AT WORST MORE
PUBLIC BENEFIT AT SECOND
READING.
SO I WOULD JUST OBSERVE THAT IT
MIGHT BE FEASIBLE FROM MY
OPINION TO PROCEED WITH THE
FIRST MEETING AS IT IS WITH THE
CLEAR UNDERSTANDING THAT IT
MIGHT BE AMENDED FOR A SECOND
READING WITH AN ADDITIONAL
PUBLIC BENEFIT ADDING BUT WITH
THE FULL BENEFIT THAT IN ITS
CURRENT FORM YOU'D BE SHARING
THE OPPORTUNITY FOR THE PUBLIC
TO REVIEW MY COMMENT IN ADVANCE
AND MOMENT.
I'M ACTUALLY IN FULL AGREEMENT
WITH MR. LAIRD.
WE COULD PROCEED WITH THE
ORDINANCE AS IT IS TODAY.
WE COULD GIVE STAFF DIRECTION
TO CONSIDER ADDITIONAL LANGUAGE
WHICH COULD THEN BE CONSIDERED
BY THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE.
IT MIGHT, HOWEVER, RESULT IN US
RECOMMENDING THAT WE GO BACK TO
FIRST READING IF WE CONSIDER
THE AMENDMENT TO BE SUBSTANTIAL
ENOUGH OR IF IT IS NOT
SUBSTANTIAL THEN WE MAY PROCEED
WITH THE SECOND READING.
BUT I DO WANT TO HIGHLIGHT THAT
IT COULD SHARPEN A
RECOMMENDATION TO GO BACK TO
FIRST READING MR. MAYOR, THIS
SOUNDS LIKE A POSTPONEMENT TO
ME.
I'M NOT TRYING TO BE DIFFICULT.
NO, NO, NO BY ALL MEANS.
BUT WHAT WE HAVE IS AN ITEM ON
THE FLOOR THAT THE FULL BODY IS
POISED TO TAKE SOME ACTION.
WE HAVE STAFF THAT IS AMENABLE
TO ADDRESSING THE DESIRES OF A
SINGLE COUNCIL MEMBER.
WE NEED A MAJORITY OF COUNCIL
TO INDICATE THAT THEY SUPPORT
WHAT A SINGLE COUNCIL MEMBER IS
ASKING FOR.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE FOR STAFF
TO SAY WE WILL ACQUIESCE TO
WHAT A SINGLE MEMBER IS ASKING
ABSENT ACTION TAKEN BY THE BODY
CERTAINLY WITH RESPECT TO
MODIFYING THE AMENDMENTS,
MODIFYING THE SUPPLEMENTARY
REGULATIONS ON ITS OWN LIKE
WITHOUT COUNCIL ACTION
INTERVENING IF WHAT I THINK I
HEAR IS THAT A AMENDMENT COULD
BE PREPARED IN THE INTERVENING
TIME AN AMENDMENT HEARING THE
CONVERSATION AND AMENDMENT
REPAIRED IN THE INTERVENING
TIME WHICH WOULD THEN BE
REVIEWED BY CITY ATTORNEY FOR
ITS FIRST MEETING SCREENING
EFFECT.
WE ASSUMING THIS PASSES GOES
FORWARD TO SECOND READING IN
THE ORDINARY COURSE WE WOULD
THEN AT THIS SECOND READING
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO REFLECT
UPON THE WISDOM OR NOT OF THE
AMENDMENT.
IF IT HAS PROPOSED AND PASSES
THEN WE WOULD DO SO HAVING A
FULL UNDERSTANDING OF WHETHER
IT BE FIRST READING OR SECOND
READING STAFF WOULD HAVE BEEN
RESPONSIVE TO THE ROOM NOT
CHANGING THE AMEND, NOT
ACTUALLY CHANGING THE
RESOLUTION BUT RATHER OFFERING
AN AMENDMENT FOR COUNCIL'S
CONSIDERATION AT THE NEXT
CONVERSATION.
DOES THAT MAKE SENSE?
YES.
DOES ANYBODY ELSE UNDERSTAND
WHAT I SAID?
ALL RIGHT.
SO COUNCILOR BRAKE'S WHAT I
WOULD ARE I HAVE CORNHILL ON
THE QUEUE IN THE ORDINARY
COURSE BUT WE'RE JUST KIND
OF FLOATING THIS A LITTLE BIT.
DOES ANYBODY DOES EVERYBODY
KIND OF UNDERSTAND WHAT'S GOING
ON?
IS EVERYBODY PRETTY COOL WITH
IT?
ALL RIGHT.
BEING COOL WITH IT.
LET'S CONTINUE.
COUNCILMAN CORNELL.
I DON'T KNOW HOW TO FOLLOW THAT
UP.
I WANT TO ADDRESS SOME THINGS
THAT I HAD HEARD COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS AND I HAD OUR MONTHLY
COFFEE OR OFFICE HOURS OR
HOWEVER YOU WANT TO PHRASE IT
YESTERDAY AND AS YOU CAN
IMAGINE THIS THIS REALLY
DOMINATED THE CONVERSATION AND
I WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT I
ADDRESSED SOME OF WHAT WE HEARD
AND WE HEARD I HEARD I SHOULD
SAY THAT THIS ACTION FEELS
RUSHED AND SUDDEN, WHICH SEEMS
VERY CONFUSING TO ME BECAUSE
ALTHOUGH I'M NEW TO COUNCIL,
THIS HAS BEEN ON MY RADAR FOR
FOUR YEARS AS A FOURTH WORD
RESIDENT BEING INVITED TO
PARTICIPATE IN PUBLIC COMMENT
ON IT.
THERE WAS A SURVEY AROUND IT.
I THINK THAT THE CITY HAS DONE
A LOT OF WORK AROUND THIS
PROPERTY AND I REALLY APPLAUD
CITY STAFFERS FOR STICKING WITH
IT.
SO I JUST I WANT TO HIGHLIGHT
THAT AGAIN, THIS IS NOT
SOMETHING THAT IS BRAND NEW AND
SPRUNG UP AND WE'RE TRYING TO
RUSH.
I THINK THAT IT'S BEEN A VERY
THOUGHTFUL PROCESS TO DATE.
I WANT TO POINT OUT THAT
THERE'S BEEN CRITICISM
OF NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER, YOU
KNOW, TALKING ABOUT WHETHER OR
NOT THIS SHOULD BE A PARK.
I THINK COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
BROUGHT UP SOME REALLY
IMPORTANT POINTS THAT IF THE
CITY OPTED TO TURN THIS
PROPERTY INTO A PARK IT WOULD
NEED TO IDENTIFY FUNDING FOR
THE DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES,
THE REMEDIATION
OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTAMINANTS,
CONSTRUCTION OF THE TREE LINE
AND PRESERVING OF THE CHIMNEY
FOR THE BIRDS WHICH WOULD TOTAL
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS THAT IS
UNBUDGETED FROM CITY FUNDS.
SO TRULY WE WOULD NEED TO ROB
PETER TO PAY PAUL TO
ACCOMMODATE SOME OF THESE.
AND WE KNOW FROM OUR PROPOSED
PLAN THAT THE CITY DOES HAVE
AMBITIOUS PARKS AND RECREATION
PLAN AND FUNDING HAS BEEN
THOUGHTFULLY DEDICATED TO
TOWARD THOSE PRIORITIES THAT
WERE INFORMED BY THE COMMUNITY
AT LARGE.
I THINK THAT'S A REALLY
IMPORTANT POINT TO THIS.
I THINK IT'S ALSO NOTEWORTHY
THAT OUR PARTNER IN THAT THE
TREE LINE TRAIL HAS ALSO
IDENTIFIED THAT THERE IS NO
AVAILABLE CITY FUNDING FOR THIS
TYPE OF PROJECT IN TERMS
OF CREATING RECREATIONAL SPACE
ON THIS SITE AND THAT CREATING
AND FUNDING ITS PERPETUAL
MAINTENANCE IS BEYOND THE SCOPE
OF TRILLANES MISSION.
SO AGAIN THIS BECOMES THE
CITY'S RESPONSIBILITY.
THE OTHER THING THAT I WANT TO
POINT OUT IS THAT WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT BROWNFIELD CREDITS, YOU
KNOW, THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF TALK ABOUT THE CITY ASSUMING
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS
CLEANING THINGS UP THAT IS
EXACTLY WHAT THIS TAX INCREMENT
FUNDING IS.
THEREFORE THIS TIFE CAPTURE IS
TAX DOLLARS THAT THE STATE
RETURNS TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS IN
ORDER TO ADVANCE IMPORTANT
PROJECTS WITHIN THE COMMUNITY.
THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT THIS TAX
CREDIT IS IS DESIGNED FOR.
IT IS A COMMON ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT TOOL.
IT IS NOT ONE IT'S BEING PULLED
OUT OF A MAGIC BAG TO PAY FOR
THIS.
WE SEE IT IN TERMS OF OUR OWN
FUNDING TO FUNDING IS USED FOR
IN OUR SPARK ACTIVITY.
IT'S USED FOR ACTIVITY.
THIS IS NOT NEW HERE IN THE
CITY NOR IS IT NEW ANYWHERE IN
THE UNITED STATES IN TERMS
OF IT BEING AN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT TOOL, I THINK THAT
THIS
SITE IS WALKABLE.
OBVIOUSLY I WALK THROUGH THE
SITE EVERY DAY ON MY WAY TO
WORK.
IT IS WALKABLE.
IT'S CLOSE TO TOWN AND TRANSIT
AND I THINK THAT THIS WILL BE A
HIGHLY DESIRABLE PROPERTY FOR A
DEVELOPER TO ACQUIRE.
I'M INTERESTED IN HEARING
FEEDBACK FROM COLLEAGUES ON THE
SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS OF THIS
PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT.
I THINK IF THIS IS ONE WE'RE
GOING TO SWING FOR THE FENCES
IT'S IT'S THE OPPORTUNITY TO DO
SO AND I THINK THAT THE PLANS
THAT THE CITY HAS PUT FORTH
RIGHT NOW IN ORDER TO DO THIS
CHECK SO MANY OF THOSE BOXES
AND IS ALREADY QUITE AMBITIOUS.
I ALREADY MENTIONED THE
RESOURCE THE TREE LINE TRAIL
DEVELOPING A NEW WEST
WASHINGTON STREETSCAPE WHICH I
THINK IS REALLY IMPORTANT AND
IT ALSO PROVIDES SETBACKS THAT
ARE GREATER THAN WHAT IS
REQUIRED INCREASES OUR FLOOD
STORAGE CAPACITY IN A
FLOODPLAIN THAT WAS SOME AROUND
THE FLOODING ISSUES AND SAFETY.
THAT WAS A LOT OF FEEDBACK THAT
WE HAVE HEARD CONSISTENTLY AND
IT REDUCES THE IMPERVIOUS
SURFACES ON THAT FLOODPLAIN
WHILE ALSO REDUCING THE
BUILDING COVERAGE IN THAT
FLOODPLAIN.
SO I'M SUPPORTIVE OF THIS
FURTHER DISCUSSION MEMBER
BREAKS.
ALL RIGHT.
SORRY FOR THAT PROCEDURAL
NIGHTMARE FOR A LITTLE BIT TO
GO BACK TO THE SUSTAINABILITY
COMPONENT.
SO THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
ARE THE GUIDELINES THAT WE'RE
GOING TO BE GOING OUT TO THE
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY AND
ASKING THEY'RE SORT OF THE
GUARDRAILS FOR THIS PROJECT.
WHAT DO WE WANT TO SEE COME
BACK TO US?
AND SO IF WE DON'T HAVE
ANYTHING IN THERE THAT SAYS
THAT WE WANT TO HAVE A BUILDING
THAT COMPLIES WITH OUR EIGHT
ZERO PLAN, IT'S UNLIKELY THE
DEVELOPER IS GOING TO BRING
THAT BACK TO US.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
PLANNING STAFF IN TERMS OF OUR
OUR CONVERSATIONS TODAY, IT'S
CLEAR THAT IT'S GOING TO TAKE A
LITTLE BIT OF TIME TO CREATE
THAT THAT LANGUAGE.
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT
EVERYBODY CAN KIND OF IS
APPROPRIATE FOR FROM LEGAL
DEPARTMENT'S PERSPECTIVE,
APPROPRIATE FROM PLANNING
DEPARTMENTS.
DETECTIVE, SO I WELCOME
PEOPLE'S FEEDBACK ON THIS IN
TERMS OF THEIR THEIR SUPPORT
AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT STAFF
IS ALSO LOOKING FOR IS A LITTLE
BIT OF FEEDBACK ON THAT TO MAKE
SURE THIS IS NOT JUST NOT JUST
ME.
I KNOW COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
AND I'VE HAD CONVERSATIONS
AROUND THIS AND I THINK WE'RE
FAIRLY IN ALIGNMENT ON THIS.
I AM LOOKING AT WHAT WE'RE
DOING ON OTHER CITY OWNED SITES
OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING WHERE
WE'RE MAXIMIZING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
THOSE ARE ALL THE ONE TWENTY
ONE IS KATHRYN THAT WE APPROVED
THE TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP TO
THE END OF OUR HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION.
IT'S GOING TO BE GOING TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TOMORROW
AND THE LANGUAGE IN THAT IS
EXTENSIVE ON IT BEING A NET
ZERO READY BUILDING AND
DISCUSSES MANY ENERGY
EFFICIENCY ELEMENTS THAT WE
EXPECT TO SEE AS PART OF THAT
PROJECT.
AND SO I THINK THERE ARE SORT
OF EXPECTATIONS ABOUT WHAT WE
WANT TO SEE OUT OF A BUILDING
OUT OF A PD IN OUR CITY.
SO I KNOW FROM MY PERSPECTIVE
THAT'S THAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
WHEN WE EVENTUALLY GET A
DEVELOPMENT BACK TO US THAT IT
IS IN ALIGNMENT WITH WHAT
VOTERS HAVE APPROVED THROUGH
OUR CLIMATE.
IT'S IN ALIGNMENT WITH OUR TWO
ZERO PLAN.
SO I THINK IT'S IN TERMS OF THE
LANGUAGE IT WAS SUGGESTED HERE
IN TERMS OF AMENDING THE
REGULATIONS I WOULD HAVE
SUPPORTED THAT TONIGHT.
I THINK THAT THAT'S ESSENTIALLY
THE INTENT IS TO AT LEAST HAVE
ANY TOOLS ZERO READY BUILDING
IF NOT MORE.
THIS IS A SITE THAT'S IN THE
FLOODPLAIN OBVIOUSLY HAVING
FEATURES THAT ELIMINATE RUNOFF
WATER RUNOFF ON THE BUILDING
LIKE A GREEN ROOF ARE ALSO
OBVIOUSLY IMPORTANT ELEMENTS IN
A PROJECT LIKE THIS IN TERMS
OF THE SPECIFICITY, OBVIOUSLY
WE DON'T HAVE A DEVELOPER AT
THE TABLE YET SO IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT TO OUTLINE.
YOU KNOW, WE WANT X, Y AND Z
OUT OF THIS.
BUT I DO THINK THAT I HOPE THAT
WE'RE ALL IN AGREEMENT IN TERMS
OF THE TYPES OF BUILDING THAT
WE WOULD WANT TO SEE BUILT ON
THIS SITE IN TERMS OF GENERAL
DIRECTION.
WE WOULD WANT A DEVELOPER TO
COME BACK TO US WITH FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
I'M EXCITED THAT THIS IS MOVING
FORWARD.
THIS IS OF COURSE HAS BEEN A A
DIFFICULT SITE FOR FOR MANY,
MANY YEARS AND THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR TO TO MAKE IT
SOMETHING USEFUL AND ATTRACTIVE
AND AND BENEFICIAL AND AND
INCREDIBLY HELPFUL TO MANY
MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY BOTH
BOTH CURRENT AND NEW BECAUSE WE
ALL KNOW THAT WE ARE IN A
HOUSING CRISIS AND WE DO NEED
HOUSING.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT WE WANT TO
GIVE THE TREELINE A BOOST AND
THIS WOULD ACCOMPLISH THAT GOAL
AND IT WOULD OF COURSE AFFECT
CLEAN UP FOR AN AREA THAT IS IN
DESPERATE NEED OF IT AND THE
THE EYESORE OF THE CURRENT
CONDITION SIMPLY CAN'T BE CAN'T
BE OVERSTATED AS WELL.
SO THIS IS AN EXCELLENT
OPPORTUNITY I BELIEVE AND I'M
EXCITED THAT IT'S MOVING
FORWARD AND LOOK FORWARD TO THE
SECOND READING THAT COUNCILOR
CARNEL AND AKMAN.
YEAH, THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY THAT
WE HAD HEARD EARLIER THAT THIS
SORT OF SUPPLEMENTAL IN TERMS
OF LOOKING AT DIRECTING GREEN
BUILDING AND MAKING US
COMPLIANT WAS CHARACTERIZED AS
ONE CITY COUNCIL MEMBER AND I
HAVE HAD NUMEROUS CONVERSATIONS
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS'S
THIS PROPERTY IS IN OUR WARD
AND I DO SUPPORT THAT AS WELL
AND I WELCOME OUR COLLEAGUES
FEEDBACK AND IDEALLY WHAT WE'D
LIKE TO SEE IN TERMS
OF ADVANCING OUR
CARBON NEUTRALITY GOALS ON THE
SITE COUNTERREACTION.
I'M ALSO SUPPORTIVE OF ARENA
SUSTAINABILITY MEASURES TO THIS
BUILDING SOMETHING THAT WE HEAR
ABOUT WITH ALMOST EVERY
DEVELOPMENT THAT COMES UP.
I THINK IT CAME UP AT LEAST
TWICE IN THE LAST MEETING AND
SO I THINK WE SHOULD BE TAKING
OPPORTUNITIES WHERE WE CAN TO
ADVANCE THE VALUES OF OUR
COMMUNITY.
THANKS.
FURTHER DISCUSSION MR DELACOURT
DID YOU SEE YOUR HANDS?
>> YOU DID BRIEFLY.
I WAS JUST GOING TO ADD WE
UNDERSTOOD THAT THE PREVIOUS
CONVERSATION WAS THAT
ACQUIESCENCE UNSTAFFED PUT IT
IN THE REGULATIONS ONLY
ADDRESSED THE APPROPRIATE
AMENDMENT FOR CONSIDERATION
OF THE FUTURE PROFIT.
THAT'S MY SONG.
MY APOLOGIES.
I JUST WANT TO QUICKLY ADD THAT
THIS PROJECT HAS COME UP BEFORE
B THE HOUSING IN HUMAN SERVICES
ADMINISTRATION ADVISORY BOARD.
THANK YOU BEFORE IT'S BEEN
UNDER DISCUSSION FOR OVER A
YEAR NOW AND I KNOW THE
COMMITTEE MEMBERS WOULD BE
REALLY PLEASED TO SEE SEE THIS
PASSED.
SO JUST REMINDER THAT WE DO
HAVE FOLKS IN COMMUNITY WHO'VE
LOOKED AT THIS AND ARE
FOLLOWING THIS AND BE EXCITED
FOR GOOD NEWS FOR DISCUSSION OR
FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED C TO
C TO AN
INSTRUMENTAL SECTION EIGHT FIVE
TO SEVEN OF CHAPTER ONE OF FIVE
HOUSING CODE OF TITLE EIGHT
BUILDING REGULATIONS OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY THAT HARBOR
MOVI KAZMIR ANEL SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBERS BY DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C TO
COUNCILOR MCCONNELL.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
I'M EXCITED TO BRING THIS
ORDINANCE FORWARD FOR
CONSIDERATION BY MY COLLEAGUES.
I WANT TO THANK COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA COUNCIL MEMBERS AKMAN
GOZI, HADWIN AND HARRISON FOR
ALSO BEING INFORMATIVE AND
HELPFUL IN BRINGING THIS TO THE
TABLE.
THIS I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE
RENTERS COMMISSION WHO OFFERED
REALLY VALUABLE INSIGHT AND
FEEDBACK ON THIS WHEN IT WAS
TAKEN TO THEM FOR THEIR INPUT.
BASICALLY WHAT THIS ORDINANCE
DOES IS AMEND THE HOUSING
CODE WITHIN THE CITY TO REQUIRE
RENTAL UNITS, RESIDENTIAL
RENTAL UNITS TO HAVE A
CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTOR.
IT'S CURRENTLY NOT PART
OF EXISTING RENTAL UNITS.
SO THE STATE DOES REQUIRE IF
YOU ARE BUILDING A NEW RENTAL
UNIT THAT YOU DO HAVE TO HAVE
CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS.
BUT AS WE KNOW THERE ARE A LOT
OF EXISTING AND MUCH OLDER
UNITS HERE IN ANN ARBOR FOR
WHICH THIS THAT DOES NOT APPLY
.
SO THIS WOULD BE VERY SIMILAR
TO WHAT IS REQUIRED FOR SMOKE
DETECTORS IN ANN ARBOR.
IT'S ANOTHER LEVEL OF SAFETY
AND SECURITY FOR RESIDENTS
HERE.
THE ONE THING THAT I DID WANT
TO POINT OUT TO MY COLLEAGUES
IS THAT WE RECEIVED LATER ON
THIS AFTERNOON LATER THIS
AFTERNOON A SUBSTITUTE
AMENDMENT THE CHANGE IN THIS
JUST SO THAT YOU KNOW IS THAT
IT WAS POINTED OUT THAT SOME
BOILERS AND FURNACES AND
MULTIFAMILY DWELLINGS SO THREE
OR MORE APARTMENTS HAVE HEATING
SYSTEMS THAT ARE NOT CONTAINED
WITHIN THE DWELLINGS
SPECIFICALLY AND SO UNDER THE
INITIAL VERSION OF THIS
ORDINANCE THEY WOULD HAVE THOSE
UNITS WOULD HAVE BEEN EXEMPT
FROM HAVING CO2 DETECTION
BECAUSE THEY DO NOT HAVE FUEL
FIRED APPLIANCES WITHIN THE
UNIT.
SO THIS COVERS THAT GAP TO MAKE
SURE THAT IT IS INCLUSIVE
OF ALL DIFFERENT TYPES
OF RENTAL HOUSING IN THE CITY
REQUIRING CARBON MONOXIDE
DETECTION UNITS.
THE OTHER THING THAT IS REALLY
IMPORTANT I THINK TO POINT OUT
HERE IS THAT THE THE
MAINTENANCE AND THE ONGOING
ASSURANCE OF SAFETY WITH WITHIN
THESE CO2 DETECTORS DETECTORS
IS THE LANDLORD'S
RESPONSIBILITY OR THE BUILDING
OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
SO I THINK THAT THIS IS A
REALLY STRONG STEP FORWARD IN
TERMS OF MAKING SURE THAT OUR
RENTERS ARE SAFE AND THAT THEY
AREN'T AT RISK OF C0 POISONING.
SO I WOULD WELCOME EVERYONE'S
SUPPORT FOR THIS ORDINANCE
MITTMAN FOR ME AND FOR AN
AMENDMENT TO SUBSTITUTE THE FOR
THE SUBSTITUTE RESOLUTION
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA DISCUSSION.
I MEAN I ASSUME THAT'S FRIENDLY
TO THE BODY.
EXCELLENT.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA THANK YOU
MAYOR TAYLOR AND I JUST WANT TO
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
AND ATTORNEY RIISER FOR ALL
OF THEIR WORK ON THIS.
I KNOW THAT THIS IS ONE OF THE
FIRST ISSUES THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER STARTED WORKING ON WHEN
WHEN SHE JOINED THIS BODY AND I
KNOW IT'S BEEN A HEAVY LIFT AS
THEY'VE BEEN WORKING THROUGH
AND MAKING SURE THEY WERE
ENGAGING WITH ALL THE
STAKEHOLDERS.
I KNOW RENTER'S COMMISSION WAS
INCREDIBLY SUPPORTIVE AS WAS
MENTIONED WHEN THEY WERE WHEN
THEY WERE BROUGHT ON BOARD AND
SO I JUST WANT TO THANK
EVERYBODY WHO PUT SOME WORK
INTO THIS WITH US AND FULLY
SUPPORT IT AND THINK THAT IT
WILL MOVE US TOWARDS SAFER
RENTAL UNITS THROUGHOUT THE
CITY.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCILOR
AKMAN WANTED TO ALSO WITH MY
THANKS FOR COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL'S WORK ON THIS.
THIS IS AN ISSUE ACTUALLY HEARD
ABOUT OVER THE SUMMER WHEN I
WAS KNOCKING ON DOORS ODDLY
ENOUGH FROM A LANDLORD WHO WAS
MYSTIFIED AS TO WHY THE CITY
REQUIRED SMOKE DETECTORS BUT
NOT CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS.
SO I REALLY APPRECIATE THIS
MOVE TO IMPROVING SAFETY FOR
TENANTS AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
THE DAY THAT MOST OF US ARE
HEATING OUR HOMES OR BRINGING
FOSSIL FUELS INTO OUR HOMES AND
WE DON'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
THIS ANYMORE OR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL FOR SOME I'M SORRY IF I
MISSED THIS BUT CAN WE CLARIFY
THAT IF THERE IS NO DETECTOR
THAT THE DEMEANOR WOULD BE
ATTRIBUTED TO THE OWNER VERSUS
THE RESIDENT OR THE RENTER IS
KIND OF COMPLIANCE?
COULD I PLEASE HAVE MR RIVALDO
ANSWER MR RIZA, THE
MISDEMEANORS ASSOCIATED WITH
INTENTIONALLY DISABLING OR
RENDERING IT INOPERABLE SO IF
THERE'S IF THERE'S NOT ONE
THERE THAT WILL BE A CIVIL
INFRACTION THERE WOULD ALSO BE
CAUGHT AT AN INSPECTION BY THE
RENTAL HOUSING.
SO IF THERE IS WAS THERE WOULD
BE A CIVIL INFRACTION AND
THEY'LL BE ORDERED TO GET IT AS
PART OF THE FOLLOW UP ON THE
INSPECTION.
BUT I DO THINK IT'S CORRECT
THAT IT'S AN INFRACTION FOR THE
OWNER AND NOT THE RENTER.
OK, THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
IT IS APPROVED.
DO YOU SEE ONE RESOLUTION TO
PROVE KITTY LARAMIE TO
GREENBELT ADVISORY COMMISSION
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA IF
I CAN'T REMEMBER THIS
DISCUSSION PLEASE DC ONE ON
FAVORE POSED IT IS APPROVED.
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THAT SATISFYING SEVEN VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC TWO RESOLUTION
TO REQUEST THE ANNENBERG PUBLIC
COMMISSION TO ESTABLISH A
PROJECT PLAN TO REDESIGN THE
CITY OF ANN CITY FLAG IN HONOR
OF THE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
BICENTENNIAL CELEBRATION MUBI
COUNCILOR SECONDED BY COUNCILOR
HARRISON DISCUSSION PLEASE OF D
TWO.
FOR MY PART I'M I'M INCREDIBLY
EXCITED ABOUT BRINGING THIS
FORWARD AS AS WE ALL KNOW CIVIC
FLAGS, MUNICIPAL FLAGS CAN BE
AN INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT PART
OF AND COMPONENT OF CIVIC
PRIDE.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT THAT REALLY
ISN'T THE CASE HERE IN ANN
ARBOR IN AND PART I BELIEVE
BECAUSE THE DESIGN OF THE THE
CURRENT CITY FLAG DOES NOT MEET
PROPER THEOLOGICAL PRINCIPLES.
THAT IS TO SAY SIMPLICITY,
DESIGN, USE OF SYMBOLISM THAT
IS MEANINGFUL THREE BASIC TWO
OR THREE BASIC COLORS, NO
LETTERING OR SEALS AND
DISTINCTIVENESS OR RELATED IF
IT'S APPROPRIATE IN THE CONTEXT
MUNICIPAL FLAGS CAN BE AN
IMPORTANT PART OF THE COMMUNITY
COHESION BUILDING BUILDING
ENTHUSIASM FOR THE MUNICIPALITY
,INFUSING CIVIC PRIDE AND IT'S
SOMETHING THAT I'M EXCITED THAT
WE'LL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
PERHAPS TO TO BRING FORWARD IN
CONNECTION WITH THE CITY'S
BICENTENNIAL IN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR FOR FOLKS THAT HAVE SEEN
THE THE REFERENCE IN THE IN THE
AGENDA AND WITH RESPECT TO THE
RESOLUTION I'D ENCOURAGE FOLKS
TO CHECK OUT THE GOOD FLAG BAD
FLAG FLIER AND FOLKS WHO ARE
INTERESTED IN SINCE I'M SINCE
THAT SINCE I HAVE THE FLOOR
TALKING ABOUT ONE OF MY
FAVORITE PODCASTS NINETY NINE
PERCENT INVISIBLE WHICH ROMAN
MARS TALKS A FAIR BIT IN THE
TED TALK AND IN A PARTICULAR
EPISODE ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE
OF CITY FLAGS, THEIR
PRINCIPLES, THEIR DESIGN AND
THE THEIR OPPORTUNITIES.
SO I'M EXCITED ABOUT THIS AND
I'M PARTICULARLY GLAD THAT THE
PUBLIC ART COMMISSION IS
INTERESTED IN IN SHEPHERDING
THIS CONVERSATION.
THEY'VE DONE AND HAD GREAT
SUCCESS OVER THE COURSE
OF YEARS WITH HAVING COMMUNITY
DESIGN PROJECTS FOR COMMUNITY
FOR PUBLIC ART THAT HAS BEEN
IMPORTANT TO THE FABRIC OF THE
COMMUNITY.
I'M THINKING WITH PARTICULARITY
AT LEAST OF THE THE MANCHESTER
WATERTOWER AND I'M HOPING
HOPEFUL THAT THIS CAN PROVE A
SIMILAR AND EVEN GREATER
SUCCESS.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBERS I'M REALLY CURIOUS IF
WE CAN COME UP WITH SOMETHING
AS STRONGLY IDENTIFIABLE AS THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN LOGO.
I THINK MANY OF US WHEREVER WE
TRAVEL WE HEAR FOLKS SAY GO
BLUE IF YOU HAVE THAT LOGO ON
YOU ON YOUR BODY IN SOME
FASHION AND BE INTERESTING TO
SEE IF WE CAN EVOKE THAT KIND
OF SAME SAME KIND OF ENTHUSIASM
RECOGNITION AND FAMILIARITY
WITH WHATEVER COMES OUT OF THIS
PROCESS.
SO I'M EXCITED.
I HOPE ALSO YOU CAN BE
INVOLVED.
IT'D BE REALLY INTERESTING TO
SEE WHAT THEIR PERSPECTIVE IS
AND AND HOW THEY ENVISION THE
CITY.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
.
WELL IN FAVOR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED DC THREE RESOLUTION TO
PROVE A GENERAL SERVICES
AGREEMENT BETWEEN WASTE
MANAGEMENT OF MICHIGAN INC AND
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR FOR
COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE FRENCH
COLLECTION ESTIMATED COST FOR
THE CITY SEVEN HUNDRED AND
THIRTY THREE THOUSAND TOTAL
ESTIMATED CONTRACT VALUE
FOURTEEN MILLION SIX HUNDRED
AND SIXTY THOUSAND MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DIS SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC THREE
ON FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVE DC
FOR RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE
CITY TO PROVIDE CITY COUNCIL A
MONTHLY RISK FUND CLAIMS REVIEW
REPORT MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACTION TAKEN BY COUNCILOR I
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC FOR
COUNCIL BRACKMAN THANK YOU.
SO THIS IS A FOLLOW ON TO THE
ORDINANCE CHANGED THAT WE MADE
EARLIER.
JUST REITERATE THAT THE REASON
WHY I BROUGHT THIS FORWARD WITH
MY COLLEAGUES WAS BECAUSE WE
WOULD LIKE TO MAINTAIN SOME
INSIGHT INTO THE CLAIMS THAT
ARE BEING PAID AND IN
PARTICULAR, YOU KNOW, I THINK
KNOWING WHAT KINDS OF ISSUES
THAT PEOPLE ARE RUNNING INTO IN
THE CITY IS IMPORTANT, I THINK
ON OUR LAST AGENDA WE HAD A
CLAIM THAT RESULTED WELL THAT
WAS THE CONTEXT OF WHICH HAD A
MISSING SIDEWALK AND A HOLE IN
THE ROAD AND PERSONALLY I THINK
THAT THAT IS USEFUL TO KNOW AS
A POLICY MAKER THE THINGS THAT
ARE GOING ON IN THE CITY.
SO THIS RESOLUTION ASKS FOR US
TO GET BASIC INFORMATION ABOUT
THE RISK FUND CLAIMS REPORTED
TO US ON A MONTHLY BASIS WHICH
IT IS NOW THROUGH THE MEETING
MINUTES.
AND YEAH, I THINK IT'S ALL I
HAVE TO SAY ABOUT IT.
THAT'S MARIAH.
THANK YOU.
I DID HAVE AN AMENDMENT I
WANTED TO INTRODUCE AND CLICK
BAUDRY IS CIRCULATING RIGHT NOW
I THINK BUT THE GIST OF IT IT'S
VERY SIMPLE AND SIMPLY SAYS
RESOLVED THAT THE MONTHLY RISK
FUND CLAIMS REVIEW REPORT WILL
ALSO BE POSTED TO A DEDICATED
PAGE ON THE CITY'S WEBSITE
WHICH I HAVE SPOKEN WITH OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR ABOUT AND HE
HAS ASSURED US THAT THERE'S NO
ISSUE WITH THAT THIS IS THERE A
SECOND SECOND BY KATHY.
THANKS.
AND THE PURPOSE OF US IS SIMPLY
TO MAKE IT EASIER FOR RESIDENTS
TO FIND THIS REPORT.
SO IN ADDITION TO IT BEING
ATTACHED TO OUR AGENDAS AND NOT
JUST OUR THERE WILL BE A
DEDICATED PLACE ON THE WEBSITE
WHERE PEOPLE CAN USE AND WE AS
WELL CAN EASILY GO LOOK AT IT
AT ANY TIME.
SO JUST PROVIDES AN INCREASED
MEASURE OF TRANSPARENCY OVER
THE PREVIOUS SYSTEM THAT NOBODY
TO FURTHER DISCUSS THE MAIN
MOTION AMENDED OR FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED TO BE ONE
RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO ENGAGE WITH
THE MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE.
MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION TO ADVANCE ENERGY
EQUITY AND RESILIENCE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER AS HE BEEN MY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASED TO BE ONE COUNCILOR
CASSIANO.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
FIRSTLY I WANT TO THANK YOU.
I WANT TO THANK COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA COUNCIL MEMBER BREAKS FOR
HELPING TO TAKE THIS TO THE
ENERGY COMMISSION.
I THINK THEY GAVE REALLY
IMPORTANT INPUT AND REALLY
MEANINGFUL INPUT AS WELL
REGARDING A VARIETY
OF DIFFERENT THINGS.
I'M GOING TO ALLOW YOU TO SHARE
IN A LITTLE BIT.
UNFORTUNATELY WE DID NOT HAVE
THE TIME TO HAVE LEGAL REVIEW
THIS AND WHAT WE ARE ASKING IN
THIS RESOLUTION AND THE INPUT
THAT THE ENERGY COMMISSION GIVE
REALLY STRENGTHENS IT AND IT'S
IMPORTANT AND IT'S IMPORTANT
THAT WE GET IT RIGHT.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION TO POSTPONE THIS
RESOLUTION TO OUR APRIL 3RD
MEETING SO THAT LEGAL HAS SOME
TIME TO REVIEW IT.
IS THERE A SECOND TAKE MY
COUNCILOR BRIGGS DISCUSSION
OF THE POSTPONEMENT ON FAVOR
POSED?
IT IS POSTPONED BECAUSE WE THE
PLEASURE OF A CLOSED SESSION
TODAY UNFORTUNATELY NOT
ANTICIPATING WE HAVE THE FORK'S
THE KIRK'S REPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CLERK'S SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
SECOND BY COUNCIL IN BRITISH
DISCUSSIONS.
THESE ARE THE CLERK'S REPORT ON
TAVOR POSED CLERCK SUPPORTERS
PROVED ARE THEIR COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY
THERE IS NO PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW TODAY AND SO I MAY
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
.
CAN COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION OR FAVOR POSED?
WE ARE ADJOURNED